



A new c.740G&gt;A (R247H) mutation in OPA1 alternate spliced exon 5b was found in a patient presenting with bilateral optic neuropathy followed by partial, spontaneous visual recovery. R247H fibroblasts from the patient and his unaffected father presented unusual highly tubular mitochondrial network, significant increased susceptibility to apoptosis, oxidative phosphorylation uncoupling, and altered OPA1 protein profile, supporting the pathogenicity of this mutation. These results suggest that the clinical spectrum of the OPA1-associated optic neuropathies may be larger than previously described, and that spontaneous recovery may occur in cases harboring an exon 5b mutation.


In the Neisseria meningitidis strain MC58 (serogroup B; ET-5 complex) genome three putative islands of horizontally transferred DNA (IHTs) have been identified. IHT-A2 codes for eight hypothetical proteins and two disrupted open reading frames with similarity to a secretion protein (NMB0097) and an ABC transporter (NMB0098). The strains MC58 and 44/76 (shown here) are meningocin resistant/weakly sensitive. None of these strains are meningocin producers. However, NMB0097 and NMB0098 homologues with open reading frames are found in meningocin producers (N. meningitidis P241 (serogroup A; systemic isolate) and BT878 (serogroup B; carrier isolate), and also in strain FAM18 (serogroup C; ET-37 complex). Knocking out either of the two genes in the strain BT878 yielded mutants that did not secrete meningocin. A similarly disrupted tolC mutant in strain BT878 still released meningocin. Among systemic meningococcal isolates prior to and at the onset (mid-1973 to the end of 1974) of the epidemic peaking in 1975 in North Norway, 12 of 30 (40%) isolates of serogroup A were meningocin producers. However, the rate for serogroup B was 1 of 45 (2.2%). Serogroup B meningocin-resistant/weakly sensitive non-producers dominated in the region from mid-1975 and spread to the rest of the country from then on. No producers were found in selected pharyngeal isolates from healthy carriers collected in Svalbard in the early spring of 1975. Our results suggest that meningocinogeny has played a part in the change from serogroup A to serogroup B among isolates in North Norway during the first half of 1975.





Rapamycin is an inhibitor of mTOR, a key component of the mTORC1 complex that controls the growth and survival of cells in response to growth factors, nutrients, energy balance and stresses. The downstream targets of mTORC1 include ribosome biogenesis, transcription, translation and macroautophagy. Recently it was proposed that rapamycin and its derivatives enhance the clearance (and/or reduce the accumulation) of mutant intracellular proteins causing proteinopathies such as tau, alpha-synuclein, ataxin-3, and full-length or fragments of huntingtin containing a polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion, by upregulating macroautophagy. We tested this proposal directly using macroautophagy-deficient fibroblasts. We found that rapamycin inhibits the aggregation of a fragment of huntingtin (exon 1) containing 97 polyQs similarly in macroautophagy-proficient (Atg5(+/+)) and macroautophagy-deficient (Atg5(-/-)) cells. These data demonstrate that autophagy is not the only mechanism by which rapamycin can alleviate the accumulation of misfolded proteins. Our data suggest that rapamycin inhibits mutant huntingtin fragment accumulation due to inhibition of protein synthesis. A model illustrates how a modest reduction in polyQ synthesis can lead to a long-lasting reduction in polyQ aggregation. We propose that several mechanisms exist by which rapamycin reduces the accumulation and potential toxicity of misfolded proteins in diseases caused by protein misfolding and aggregation.
Hypoxia/ischemia (H/I) brain injury at birth is an important cause of cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and epilepsy. The H/I insult also causes energy failure, oxidative stress, and unbalanced ion fluxes, leading to high induction of autopahgy in brain neurons. Since the mice unable to execute autophagy (due to brain-specific deletion of Atg7 or Atg5) die by massive loss of cerebral and cerebellar neurons with accumulation of ubiquitin aggregates, induction of neuronal autophagy after H/I injury is generally considered neuroprotective by maintaining cellular homeostasis. However, our recent results show that hippocampal pyramidal neurons undergoing caspase-dependent or -independent death following neonatal H/I injury possess abundant LC3-positive granules, and such H/I neuronal death is largely prevented by Atg7 deficiency. In the present review we discuss the roles of autophagy and other forms of programmed cell death in the neonatal H/I brain insult.
In this commentary, we discuss recent experiments on the reliability of bird song as a signal of aggressive intent during territorial conflicts. We outline relevant theoretical views on honest signaling, highlighting the vulnerability handicap hypothesis as a possible explanation for soft song's reliability in predicting attack. We also sketch possible methods of testing whether soft song agrees with key predictions of the vulnerability handicap hypothesis. Finally, we suggest possible empirical refinements that may be useful in future studies of signals of intent, both in birds and in animals broadly. In particular, we argue that future studies of intent should strive to incorporate the following elements into their experimental design: (1) multi-modal signal components, (2) interaction dynamics, and (3) minimal time intervals. Simulated exchanges using dynamically-interactive models may provide a powerful means of incorporating all three of these design features simultaneously.
The aim of this study was to further characterize the memory-enhancing profile of S 18986 a positive allosteric modulator of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors. S 18986 was studied in two mouse models of age-related memory deficits, using radial maze paradigms involving long-term/declarative memory and short-term/working memory. Aged mice exhibited severe deficits when compared with their younger counterparts in the two behavioural tests. S 18986 at the dose of 0.1 mg/kg selectively improved aged mouse performance in the test of long-term/declarative memory flexibility and exerted a beneficial effect on short-term retention of successive arm-visits in the short-term/working memory test. This study confirms the memory-enhancing properties of S 18986 and, in line with emerging data on multiple AMPA modulators, highlights the relevance of targeting AMPA receptors in the development of new memory enhancers.
Behavioral flexibility or 'set-shifting' refers to the ability to modify ongoing behavior in response to changing goals or environmental contingencies. Impaired behavioral flexibility is associated with disorders such as schizophrenia and addiction. Hypofunction of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has been implicated in these impairments. Metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGlu5) receptors closely interact with NMDA receptors and may provide a feasible pharmacological target for indirect manipulation of NMDA receptor function in disease states. The aim of this study was to examine the impact of NMDA and mGlu5 receptors on set-shifting ability. We developed a computer-controlled, operant-based set-shifting task that requires rats to learn sequential discrimination rules based on two distinct perceptual dimensions. Using this task, we found that administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801, both systemically and intracortically, significantly impaired task performance, whereas stimulation or inhibition of mGlu5 receptors did not impair task performance. However, when administered after MK801, potentiation of mGlu5 receptor function reduced the performance impairments observed with MK801 alone. These results suggest an interaction between NMDA and mGlu5 receptors in cognitive flexibility and may provide a novel therapeutic approach for treating disorders associated with aberrant NMDA function.
Pharmacological blockade of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor has been repeatedly reported to suppress intake of food, including highly palatable foods, in laboratory animals. This study was designed to investigate whether treatment with the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, rimonabant, would reduce the reinforcing and motivational properties of a chocolate-flavoured beverage [containing 5% (w/v) chocolate powder] in nonfood-deprived and nonwater-deprived Wistar rats trained to self-administer this beverage under an operant conditioning procedure. This study was also aimed at assessing to what degree self-administration behaviour could be manipulated environmentally. After a period of training and maintenance of the self-administration behaviour, separate groups of rats were exposed to different experimental conditions [session length varying from 20 to 120 min; fixed ratio (FR) schedule of reinforcement varying from FR10 to FR40; reinforcer presentation varying from 2.5 to 10 s; concentration of the chocolate powder varying from 5% (w/v) to 0%]; other rat groups were used to test the effect of acute and repeated treatment with rimonabant (1-5.6 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) on two schedules of reinforcement (FR10 and progressive ratio) and extinction responding. All rats rapidly acquired and steadily maintained high levels of self-administration of the chocolate-flavoured beverage. Changes in experimental conditions modified the rats' self-administration behaviour; these changes seemed to be the result of the rats' attempt to adjust their behaviour so as to consume as much of the chocolate-flavoured beverage as possible when it was presented at its most palatable 5% concentration. Treatment with rimonabant dose-dependently suppressed self-administration of the chocolate-flavoured beverage. When rimonabant was administered repeatedly, only a modest degree of tolerance developed to its reducing effect. Finally, treatment with rimonabant resulted in a dose-dependent reduction of the motivational properties of the chocolate-flavoured beverage, measured by the progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement and extinction-responding procedure. These results suggest that self-administration of a chocolate-flavoured beverage can be rapidly and reliably established in rats and that this behaviour is environmentally manipulable. These results also suggest that the cannabinoid CB1 receptor is a crucial component of the neural substrate mediating the reinforcing and motivational properties of a highly palatable food such as a chocolate-flavoured beverage.

To better understand the dynamics of online student test taking, including the likelihood of cheating by large numbers of students, we examined test-taking patterns and outcomes of weekly online quizzes in two large undergraduate biology lecture courses. Students taking a quiz late in a 1-3-day quiz access period performed 10-15% worse on quizzes than the students who completed the quiz early. Quiz access time was also negatively correlated with performance in other course components and course grades. These patterns suggest that academic dishonesty was not a determinant in unsupervised online quiz performance. Students generally completed quizzes in late afternoon or evening hours, but students who completed quizzes between midnight and 8 a.m. had significantly lower quiz grades than their peers. In addition, upper-division students were more likely to characterize weekly online quizzes as more helpful for their learning than the lower-division students.
Generation and accumulation of the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) following proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by BACE-1 (Beta-site APP Cleaving Enzyme-1, beta-secretase) and gamma-secretase is a main causal factor of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Consequently, inhibition of BACE-1, a rate-limiting enzyme in the production of Abeta, is an attractive therapeutic approach for the treatment of AD. In this study, we discovered that natural flavonoids act as non-peptidic BACE-1 inhibitors and potently inhibit BACE-1 activity and reduce the level of secreted Abeta in primary cortical neurons. In addition, we demonstrated the calculated docking poses of flavonoids to BACE-1 and revealed the interactions of flavonoids with the BACE-1 catalytic center. We firstly revealed novel pharmacophore features of flavonoids by using cell-free, cell-based and in silico docking studies. These results contribute to the development of new BACE-1 inhibitors for the treatment of AD.
In this paper, we demonstrate that two characteristic properties of mammalian brains emerge when scaling-up modular, cortical structures. Firstly, the glia-to-neuron ratio is not constant across brains of different sizes: large mammalian brains have more glia per neuron than smaller brains. Our analyses suggest that if one assumes that glia number is proportional to wiring, a particular quantitative relationship emerges between brain size and glia-to-neuron ratio that fits the empirical data. Secondly, many authors have reported that the number of neurons underlying one mm(2) of mammalian cortex is remarkably constant, across both areas and species. Here, we will show that such a constancy emerges when enlarging modular, cortical brain structures. Our analyses thus corroborate recent studies on the mammalian brain as a scalable architecture, providing a possible mechanism to explain some of the principles, constancies and rules that hold across brains of different size.
Perception relies on the response of populations of neurons in sensory cortex. How the response profile of a neuronal population gives rise to perception and perceptual discrimination has been conceptualized in various ways. Here we suggest that neuronal population responses represent information about our environment explicitly as Fisher information (FI), which is a local measure of the variance estimate of the sensory input. We show how this sensory information can be read out and combined to infer from the available information profile which stimulus value is perceived during a fine discrimination task. In particular, we propose that the perceived stimulus corresponds to the stimulus value that leads to the same information for each of the alternative directions, and compare the model prediction to standard models considered in the literature (population vector, maximum likelihood, maximum-a-posteriori Bayesian inference). The models are applied to human performance in a motion discrimination task that induces perceptual misjudgements of a target direction of motion by task irrelevant motion in the spatial surround of the target stimulus (motion repulsion). By using the neurophysiological insight that surround motion suppresses neuronal responses to the target motion in the center, all models predicted the pattern of perceptual misjudgements. The variation of discrimination thresholds (error on the perceived value) was also explained through the changes of the total FI content with varying surround motion directions. The proposed FI decoding scheme incorporates recent neurophysiological evidence from macaque visual cortex showing that perceptual decisions do not rely on the most active neurons, but rather on the most informative neuronal responses. We statistically compare the prediction capability of the FI decoding approach and the standard decoding models. Notably, all models reproduced the variation of the perceived stimulus values for different surrounds, but with different neuronal tuning characteristics underlying perception. Compared to the FI approach the prediction power of the standard models was based on neurons with far wider tuning width and stronger surround suppression. Our study demonstrates that perceptual misjudgements can be based on neuronal populations encoding explicitly the available sensory information, and provides testable neurophysiological predictions on neuronal tuning characteristics underlying human perceptual decisions.

Normal mode analysis (NMA) has received much attention as a direct approach to extract the collective motions of macromolecules. However, the stringent requirement of computational resources by classical all-atom NMA limits the size of the macromolecules to which the method is normally applied. We implemented a novel coarse-grained normal mode approach based on partitioning the all-atom Hessian matrix into relevant and nonrelevant parts. It is interesting to note that, using classical all-atom NMA results as a reference, we found that this method generates more accurate results than do other coarse-grained approaches, including elastic network model and block normal mode approaches. Moreover, this new method is effective in incorporating the energetic contributions from the nonrelevant atoms, including surface water molecules, into the coarse-grained protein motions. The importance of such improvements is demonstrated by the effect of surface water to shift vibrational modes to higher frequencies and by an increase in overlap of the coarse-grained eigenvector space (the motion directions) with that obtained from molecular dynamics simulations of solvated protein in a water box. These results not only confirm the quality of our method but also point out the importance of incorporating surface structural water in studying protein dynamics.
Plant neurobiology, a new and developing area in the plant sciences, is a meeting place for scientists concerned with exploring how plants perceive signs within their environment and convert them into internal electro-chemical ('plant neurobiological') signals. These signals, in turn, permit rapid modifications of physiology and development that help plants adjust to changes in their environment. The use of the epithet 'neurobiology' in the context of plant life has, however, led to misunderstanding about the aims, content, and scope of this topic. This difficulty is possibly due to the terminology used, since this is often unfamiliar in the context of plants. In the present article, the scope of plant neurobiology is explored and some of analogical and metaphorical aspects of the subject are discussed. One approach to reconciling possible problems of using the term 'plant neurobiology' and, at the same time, of analysing information transfer in plants and the developmental processes which are regulated thereby, is through Living Systems Theory (LST). This theory specifically directs attention to the means by which information is gathered and processed, and then dispersed throughout the hierarchy of organisational levels of the plant body. Attempts to identify the plant 'neural' structures point to the involvement of the vascular tissue - xylem and phloem - in conveying electrical impulses generated in zones of special sensitivity to receptive locations throughout the plant in response to mild stress. Vascular tissue therefore corresponds, at the level of organismic organisation, with the informational 'channel and net' subsystem of LST.


Both in man and in animal models, changes in food intake and body composition in later life have been reported after alterations in perinatal nutrition. Therefore, we hypothesised that early postnatal undernutrition in the rat induces permanent changes in energy balance. Food restriction (FR) during lactation was achieved by enlarging litter size to twenty pups, whereas control animals were raised in litters containing ten pups. Energy intake and resting energy expenditure were determined in adult males. Early postnatal FR resulted in acute growth restriction followed by incomplete catch-up in body weight, body length and BMI. At the age of 12 months, middle-aged FR males had significantly lower absolute resting energy expenditure (200 v. 216 kJ/24 h, P = 0.009), absolute energy intake (281 v. 310 kJ/24 h, P = 0.001) and energy intake adjusted for BMI (284 v. 305 kJ/24 h, P = 0.016) than controls, whereas resting energy expenditure adjusted for BMI did not differ significantly between the groups (204 v. 211 kJ/24 h, P = 0.156). The amount of energy remaining for other functions was lower in FR males (80 v. 94 kJ/24 h, P = 0.044). Comparable data were obtained at the age of 6 months. These results indicate that in rats energy balance can be programmed by early nutrition. A low early postnatal food intake appears to programme these animals for a low energy intake and to remain slender in adult life.
Drugs of abuse all share common properties classically observed in human beings and laboratory animals. They enhance neural firing and dopamine tone within the nucleus accumbens and produce progressively greater drug-induced motor responses defined as behavioural sensitization. They produce conditioned place preference, a behavioural model of incentive motivation, which highlights the role of environmental cues in drug addiction. They increase brain reward function as seen by a lowering of intracranial self-stimulation thresholds. And last but not least, they are self-administered, and sometimes even abused, and can trigger reinstatement of drug-seeking behaviour in animals extinguished from drug self-administration. It has long been considered that the reinforcing properties of virtually all drugs of abuse, more specifically psychostimulants, are primarily dependent on activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system. However, recent evidence raises the importance of dopamine-independent mechanisms in reward-related behaviours. The overwhelming body of evidence that indicates a critical role for the mesolimbic dopamine system in the reinforcing effect of psychostimulants should not mask the key contribution of other modulatory systems in the brain. This review summarizes the complex and subtle role of several neuropeptidergic systems in various aspects of addictive behaviours observed in laboratory animals exposed to psychostimulants. A special emphasis is given to the cannabinoid, opioid, nociceptin/orphanin FQ, corticotropin-releasing factor and hypocretin/orexin systems. The relevance of these systems viewed as potential therapeutic targets for drug addiction is discussed in the light of their narrow pharmacological profile and their effectiveness in preventing drug addiction at doses usually not accompanied by severe side effects.


The main characteristics of cocaine addiction are compulsive drug use despite adverse consequences and high rates of relapse during periods of abstinence. A current popular hypothesis is that compulsive cocaine use and cocaine relapse is due to drug-induced neuroadaptations in reward-related learning and memory processes, which cause hypersensitivity to cocaine-associated cues, impulsive decision making and abnormal habit-like learned behaviours that are insensitive to adverse consequences. Here, we review results from studies on the effect of cocaine exposure on selected signalling cascades, growth factors and physiological processes previously implicated in neuroplasticity underlying normal learning and memory. These include the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signalling pathway, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), glutamate transmission, and synaptic plasticity (primarily in the form of long-term potentiation and depression, LTP and LTD). We also discuss the degree to which these cocaine-induced neuroplasticity changes in the mesolimbic dopamine system mediate cocaine psychomotor sensitization and cocaine-seeking behaviours, as assessed in animal models of drug addiction. Finally, we speculate on how these factors may interact to initiate and sustain cocaine psychomotor sensitization and cocaine seeking.
Drug addiction presents as a chronic relapsing disorder characterized by persistent drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviours. Given the significant detrimental effects of this disease both socially and economically, a considerable amount of research has been dedicated to understanding a number of issues in addiction, including behavioural and neuropharmacological factors that contribute to the development, loss of control and persistence of compulsive addictive behaviours. In this review, we will give a broad overview of various theories of addiction, animal models of addiction and relapse, drugs of abuse, and the neurobiology of drug dependence and relapse. Although drugs of abuse possess diverse neuropharmacological profiles, activation of the mesocorticolimbic system, particularly the ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens, amygdala and prefrontal cortex via dopaminergic and glutamatergic pathways, constitutes a common pathway by which various drugs of abuse mediate their acute reinforcing effects. However, long-term neuroadaptations in this circuitry likely underlie the transition to drug dependence and cycles of relapse. As further elucidated in more comprehensive reviews of various subtopics on addiction in later sections of this special issue, it is anticipated that continued basic neuroscience research will aid in the development of effective therapeutic interventions for the long-term treatment of drug-dependent individuals.


Overactivity of subthalamic nucleus (STN) neurons is a consistent feature of Parkinson's disease (PD) and is a target of therapy for this disorder. However, the relationship of STN firing rate to regional brain function is not known. We scanned 17 PD patients with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET to measure resting glucose metabolism before the implantation of STN deep brain stimulation electrodes. Spontaneous STN firing rates were recorded during surgery and correlated with preoperative regional glucose metabolism on a voxel-by-voxel basis. We also examined the relationship between firing rate and the activity of metabolic brain networks associated with the motor and cognitive manifestations of the disease. Mean firing rates were 47.2 +/- 6.1 and 48.7 +/- 8.5 Hz for the left and right hemispheres, respectively. These measures correlated (P &lt; 0.007) with glucose metabolism in the putamen and globus pallidus, which receive projections from this structure. Significant correlations (P &lt; 0.0005) were also evident in the primary motor (BA4) and dorsolateral prefrontal (BA46/10) cortical areas. The activity of both the motor (P &lt; 0.0001) and the cognitive (P &lt; 0.006) PD-related metabolic networks was elevated in these patients. STN firing rates correlated with the activity of the former (P &lt; 0.007) but not the latter network (P = 0.39). The findings suggest that the functional pathways associated with motor disability in PD are linked to the STN firing rate. These pathways are likely to mediate the clinical benefit that is seen following targeted STN interventions for this disease.
The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and insular cortex are implicated in distributed neural circuitry that supports emotional decision-making. Previous studies of patients with vmPFC lesions have focused primarily on decision-making under uncertainty, when outcome probabilities are ambiguous (e.g. the Iowa Gambling Task). It remains unclear whether vmPFC is also necessary for decision-making under risk, when outcome probabilities are explicit. It is not known whether the effect of insular damage is analogous to the effect of vmPFC damage, or whether these regions contribute differentially to choice behaviour. Four groups of participants were compared on the Cambridge Gamble Task, a well-characterized measure of risky decision-making where outcome probabilities are presented explicitly, thus minimizing additional learning and working memory demands. Patients with focal, stable lesions to the vmPFC (n = 20) and the insular cortex (n = 13) were compared against healthy subjects (n = 41) and a group of lesion controls (n = 12) with damage predominantly affecting the dorsal and lateral frontal cortex. The vmPFC and insular cortex patients showed selective and distinctive disruptions of betting behaviour. VmPFC damage was associated with increased betting regardless of the odds of winning, consistent with a role of vmPFC in biasing healthy individuals towards conservative options under risk. In contrast, patients with insular cortex lesions failed to adjust their bets by the odds of winning, consistent with a role of the insular cortex in signalling the probability of aversive outcomes. The insular group attained a lower point score on the task and experienced more 'bankruptcies'. There were no group differences in probability judgement. These data confirm the necessary role of the vmPFC and insular regions in decision-making under risk. Poor decision-making in clinical populations can arise via multiple routes, with functionally dissociable effects of vmPFC and insular cortex damage.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is often accompanied by a pattern of executive deficits similar to those found in patients with frontal lobe lesions. We investigated whether such cognitive deficits are attributable to frontal lobe dysfunction as a direct consequence of impaired mesocortical dopaminergic transmission or an indirect consequence of impaired nigrostriatal dopaminergic function. For this purpose, changes in synaptic dopamine levels during task performance were monitored using a marker of dopamine D2-receptor availability (11)C-raclopride (RAC) PET. During RAC PET, seven patients with early symptomatic PD and seven age-matched healthy controls performed two types of behavioural task, a spatial working memory task (SWT) and a visuomotor control task (VMT). The SWT involves an executive process which is known to be impaired by both frontal lobe lesions and PD while the VMT is a control test for the visuomotor component of the SWT. Parametric images of RAC binding potential during performance of each task were generated, and compared between the tasks using voxel-based statistical parametric mapping as well as region of interest analysis. In controls, RAC binding was reduced in the dorsal caudate during performance of the SWT compared with the VMT, compatible with increased levels of endogenous dopamine release due to the executive process. In PD patients, this RAC binding reduction was not observed. In contrast, RAC binding in the anterior cingulate cortex within the medial prefrontal cortex was reduced by a comparable level during the SWT both in controls and PD patients. Statistical comparisons between controls and PD patients confirmed significantly attenuated dopamine release in the dorsal caudate in PD, but preserved levels of medial prefrontal dopamine release. Our data suggest that executive deficits in early patients with PD are associated with impaired nigrostriatal dopaminergic function resulting in abnormal processing in the cortico-basal ganglia circuit. In contrast, mesocortical dopaminergic transmission appears well preserved in early PD patients.
After stroke, the function of primary motor cortex (M1) between the hemispheres may become unbalanced. Techniques that promote a re-balancing of M1 excitability may prime the brain to be more responsive to rehabilitation therapies and lead to improved functional outcomes. The present study examined the effects of Active-Passive Bilateral Therapy (APBT), a putative movement-based priming strategy designed to reduce intracortical inhibition and increase excitability within the ipsilesional M1. Thirty-two patients with upper limb weakness at least 6 months after stroke were randomized to a 1-month intervention of self-directed motor practice with their affected upper limb (control group) or to APBT for 10-15 min prior to the same motor practice (APBT group). A blinded clinical rater assessed upper limb function at baseline, and immediately and 1 month after the intervention. Transcranial magnetic stimulation was used to assess M1 excitability. Immediately after the intervention, motor function of the affected upper limb improved in both groups (P &lt; 0.005). One month after the intervention, the APBT group had better upper limb motor function than control patients (P &lt; 0.05). The APBT group had increased ipsilesional M1 excitability (P &lt; 0.025), increased transcallosal inhibition from ipsilesional to contralesional M1 (P &lt; 0.01) and increased intracortical inhibition within contralesional M1 (P &lt; 0.005). None of these changes were found in the control group. APBT produced sustained improvements in upper limb motor function in chronic stroke patients and induced specific and sustained changes in motor cortex inhibitory function. We speculate that APBT may have facilitated plastic reorganization in the brain in response to motor therapy. The utility of APBT as an adjuvant to physical therapy warrants further consideration.
Bradykinin is an inflammatory mediator that plays a pivotal role in pain and hyperalgesia in inflamed tissues by exciting and/or sensitizing nociceptors. TRPA1 is an important component of the transduction machinery through which environmental irritants and endogenous proalgesic agents depolarize nociceptors to elicit inflammatory pain. Here, using electrophysiological, immunocytochemical and behavioural analyses, we showed a functional interaction of these two inflammation-related molecules in both heterologous expressing systems and primary sensory neurons. We found that bradykinin increased the TRPA1 currents evoked by allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) or cinnamaldehyde in HEK293 cells expressing TRPA1 and bradykinin receptor 2 (B2R). This potentiation was inhibited by phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor or protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, and mimicked by PLC or PKA activator. The functional interaction between B2R and TRPA1, as well as the modulation mechanism, was also observed in rat dorsal root ganglia neurons. In an occlusion experiment, the PLC activator could enhance AITC-induced TRPA1 current further even in saturated PKA-mediated potentiation, indicating the additive potentiating effects of the PLC and PKA pathways. These data for the first time indicate that a cAMP-PKA signalling is involved in the downstream from B2R in dorsal root ganglia neurons in addition to PLC. Finally, subcutaneous pre-injection of a sub-inflammatory dose of bradykinin into rat hind paw enhanced AITC-induced pain behaviours, which was consistent with the observations in vitro. Collectively, these results represent a novel mechanism through which bradykinin released in response to tissue inflammation might trigger the sensation of pain by TRPA1 activation.
Bilateral basal ganglia lesions have been reported to induce a particular form of apathy, termed auto-activation deficit (AAD), principally defined as a loss of self-driven behaviour that is reversible with external stimulation. We hypothesized that AAD reflects a dysfunction of incentive motivation, a process that translates an expected reward (or goal) into behavioural activation. To investigate this hypothesis, we designed a behavioural paradigm contrasting an instructed (externally driven) task, in which subjects have to produce different levels of force by squeezing a hand grip, to an incentive (self-driven) task, in which subjects can win, depending on their hand grip force, different amounts of money. Skin conductance was simultaneously measured to index affective evaluation of monetary incentives. Thirteen AAD patients with bilateral striato-pallidal lesions were compared to thirteen unmedicated patients with Parkinson's; disease (PD), which is characterized by striatal dopamine depletion and regularly associated with apathy. AAD patients did not differ from PD patients in terms of grip force response to external instructions or skin conductance response to monetary incentives. However, unlike PD patients, they failed to distinguish between monetary incentives in their grip force. We conclude that bilateral striato-pallidal damage specifically disconnects motor output from affective evaluation of potential rewards.
Anti-GQ1b ganglioside antibodies are the serological hallmark of the Miller Fisher syndrome (MFS) variant of the paralytic neuropathy, Guillain-Barr syndrome, and are believed to be the principal pathogenic mediators of the disease. In support of this, we previously showed in an in vitro mouse model of MFS that anti-GQ1b antibodies were able to bind and disrupt presynaptic motor nerve terminals at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) as one of their target sites, thereby causing muscle paralysis. This injury only occurred through activation of complement, culminating in the formation and deposition of membrane attack complex (MAC, C5b-9) in nerve membranes. Since this step is crucial to the neuropathic process and an important convergence point for antibody and complement mediated membrane injury in general, it forms an attractive pharmacotherapeutic target. Here, we assessed the efficacy of the humanized monoclonal antibody eculizumab, which blocks the formation of human C5a and C5b-9, in preventing the immune-mediated motor neuropathy exemplified in this model. Eculizumab completely prevented electrophysiological and structural lesions at anti-GQ1b antibody pre-incubated NMJs in vitro when using normal human serum (NHS) as a complement source. In a novel in vivo mouse model of MFS generated through intraperitoneal injection of anti-GQ1b antibody and NHS, mice developed respiratory paralysis due to transmission block at diaphragm NMJs, resulting from anti-GQ1b antibody binding and complement activation. Intravenous injection of eculizumab effectively prevented respiratory paralysis and associated functional and morphological hallmarks of terminal motor neuropathy. We show that eculizumab protects against complement-mediated damage in murine MFS, providing the rationale for undertaking clinical trials in this disease and other antibody-mediated neuropathies in which complement activation is believed to be involved.
Activation of the inflammatory immune response may provoke neuroendocrine and central neurochemical effects that are reminiscent of those elicited by traditional stressors, and when administered concurrently may have synergistic effects. The present investigation assessed whether a psychosocial stressor, comprising social disruption, would augment the effects of lipopolysaccharide in mice. It was indeed observed that the social disruption engendered by a period of 2-4 weeks of social isolation (but not 1-7 days of this treatment) followed by regrouping, enhanced the effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS: 10mug) in the provocation of sickness behavior, as well as plasma corticosterone, IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL-10 levels. Similar effects were not apparent with respect to IL-1beta, IL-4, or IFN-gamma. Synergy between LPS and other stressors (restraint, tail pinch, and loud noise) was not apparent with respect to sickness or plasma corticosterone, provisionally suggesting that social stressors, such as regrouping, may be more powerful or may engage unique neural or neuroendocrine circuits that favour synergistic outcomes. Within the CNS, the LPS and the regrouping stressor synergistically enhanced NE utilization within the prefrontal cortex, and additively influenced hippocampal NE utilization. In contrast to the effects on circulating cytokines, the LPS-induced elevation of IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha mRNA expression in the hippocampus, PFC and nucleus tractus solitarius was diminished in animals that had experienced the regrouping stressor. In view of the combined actions of LPS challenge and a social stressor, these data are interpreted as suggesting that models of depression based on immune activation ought to consider the stressor backdrop upon which immune challenges are imposed.
Recent findings from our laboratory and others indicate that exposure to stress can increase expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1). In a series of studies examining this response, we observed pronounced differences in baseline levels of hypothalamic IL-1 of pair-housed rats. We hypothesized that these pair-wise differences might be a result of prolonged social stress associated with dominance/submissiveness, and that the submissive animal would show heightened baseline levels of IL-1. In order to test this hypothesis, we utilized a food competition paradigm (access to cheerios) to assess dominance within a dyad prior to the assessment of hypothalamic IL-1 levels. Based on the results of this test, clear dominance hierarchies were observed in approximately 50% of the dyads, a ratio comparable to what has been reported previously. More importantly, this dominant/submissive categorization could be used to predict pair-wise differences in hypothalamic IL-1 with greater than 90% accuracy. Specifically, the submissive rat in each dyad (determined a priori) consistently evinced hypothalamic IL-1 levels that were nearly double that of its dominant cage mate. Further studies demonstrated that submissive rats showed a more rapid and pronounced hyperthermic response to novel environment stress relative to dominant rats. Interestingly, social status had no effect on corticosterone reactivity, even when the nature and intensity of the stressor was varied. Finally, maintenance of a clear dominance hierarchy obfuscated hypothalamic IL-1 responses to footshock exposure, with the most robust increases in hypothalamic IL-1 provoked by footshock being observed in pairs where there was no clear dominance hierarchy. Together, these findings suggest that social status can have a significant impact on stress reactivity and neuroimmune consequences of stressor exposure even in the unperturbed home cage environment.
Neonatal bacterial infection in rats leads to profound hippocampal-dependent memory impairments following a peripheral immune challenge in adulthood. Here, we determined whether neonatal infection plus an immune challenge in adult rats is associated with impaired induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) within the hippocampus (CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus) following fear conditioning. BDNF is well characterized for its critical role in learning and memory. Rats injected on postnatal day 4 with PBS (vehicle) or Escherichia coli received as adults either no conditioning or a single 2min trial of fear conditioning. Half of the rats in the conditioned group then received a peripheral injection of 25mug/kg lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and all were sacrificed 1 or 4h later. Basal (unconditioned) BDNF mRNA did not differ between groups. However, following conditioning, neonatal infection with E. coli led to decreased BDNF mRNA induction in all regions compared to PBS-treated rats. This decrease in E. coli-treated rats was accompanied by a large increase in IL-1beta mRNA in CA1. Taken together, these data indicate that early infection strongly influences the induction of IL-1beta and BDNF within distinct regions of the hippocampus, which likely contribute to observed memory impairments in adulthood.
Recent work has shown that Whorf effects of language on color discrimination are stronger in the right visual field than in the left. Here we show that this phenomenon is not limited to color: The perception of animal figures (cats and dogs) was more strongly affected by linguistic categories for stimuli presented to the right visual field than those presented to the left. Moreover, the magnitude of the visual field asymmetry was reduced when demands on verbal working memory were increased by a secondary task. This reduction did not occur when the secondary task imposed demands on spatial working memory. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the lateralized Whorf effect may be quite general, reflecting an interaction of linguistic and perceptual codes primarily in the left hemisphere.
A 79-year-old female was admitted to our hospital because of unconsciousness and convulsion following mental deterioration. On admission, she exhibited myoclonic movement of the right side of the face and right fingers in addition to rigospasticity and tremors in the right arm and leg. Laboratory tests revealed hyperthyroidism with an increased anti-TSH-R antibody titer. In addition, an echogram indicated excessive blood flow at the thyroid; hence, the patient was diagnosed with Basedow's disease. Interestingly, the tests also revealed increased titer of anti-TPO antibody, anti-Tg antibody, and anti-NH2 terminal of alpha-enolase (NAE) antibody; in addition, an EEG showed abnormal findings potentially indicating periodic synchronous discharge. Brain MRI showed cerebral atrophy, and brain 99mTc-ECD-SPECT images demonstrated an overall decrease in the accumulation of 99mTc in the cerebrum. The abovementioned findings are common to patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). We initiated treatment for hyperthyroidism with thiamazole and lugol, but this did not regain consciousness. Because she had anti-thyroid antibody was observed, we considered a differential diagnosis of Hashimoto's encephalopathy and, in fact, methylprednisolone pulse therapy alleviated her symptoms and normalized the EEG findings. The condition in this case clinically mimicked CJD; therefore, the differentiated diagnosis is important because Hashimoto's encephalopathy is treatable disease.
On the occasion of my retirement as head of the Neurochirurgische Universittsklinik Zrich on 31. May 2007, the changing aspects of neurosurgery in diseases dealt with and in their treatments during the last 70 years (from the foundation of the department by Prof. Krayenbuehl in 1937 successed by Prof. Yaargil and later on by myself.) were presented. Number of surgical procedures were 1,000 times per year during the interval and the busiest era was that of Prof. Krayenbhl, in which it amounted to as much as 1,500 at the maximum. Lumbar disc surgery was the most frequent one (around 250/year with the use of more than 70 beds) and this belonged to the beginning of the resident's surgical training program. This is now mainly performed by neurosurgeons in practice outside of the university hospital. Although &quot;new&quot; technique such as Chymopapain injection or endoscopic methods have been applied, microsurgical lumbar disc surgery remains as the gold standard. Newly the situation of medical economics has changed dramatically. One is forced to adapt oneself more or less to this change, so that these 1,000 surgeries/year could be performed using 30 beds. Vascular neurosurgery has changed considerably in its aspects from development of microsurgery pioneered by Prof. Yaargil at the end of 1960 and to the endovascular methods by Serbinenco, Grntzig in 1970s followed by Guglielmi's electrothrombosis at the end of 1980. Our cases of aneurysm clipping decreased from 100 (1993) to 80 (2006), while cases of aneurysm coiling increased from 40 (1993) to 60 (2006). Long-term follow-up results of endovascular methods are still to be evaluated for the final judgement of appropriateness of this tendency. AVMs are now mainly treated with endovascular method (70/year) and their microsurgical removal of AVMs is usually performed in combination with hematoma removal in the acute stage (20/year). Gamma-knife application for AVMs were rare. Traditionally, carotid endarterectomy belonged to vascular surgeons in our hospital, but the tendency of conversion from conventional carotid endarterectomy to endovascular PTA and/or stenting seemed to be marked, while microvascular revascularization procedure represented by extracranial intracranial EC-IC bypass remained constant (around 20/year) in various occasion (277 times on 203 cases: atherosclerosis 93, Moyamoya angiopathy (MMA) 47, aneurysm 57 and skull base tumour 6, during the last 13 years], in spite of negative results of EC-IC bypass international cooperative study for stroke prevention in 1985. Glioma surgery especially glioblastoma surgery the most frequent surgery in our department around 170 / year contributed to improvement of both life expectancy and quality of life by development of therapy modalities (irradiation microsurgery and chemotherapy). Recent life expectancy of cases with primary glioblastoma amounted to 25.8 ms on the average by combination of treatments; microsurgical gross total removal + irradiation + temodal and thalidomide. This was 8.5 ms and 14 ms respectively at the time of Prof. Krayenbhl 1960 (surgical removal plus irradiation) and of Prof. Yaargil 1970 (microsurgical removal plus irradiation) and these results being those on cases of primary and secondary glioblastoma together. Postoperative quality of life improved also by using modern techniques: intraoperative stimulation, cortical mapping, navigation, open MRI etc.. Acoustic neurinoma (just less than 20/year) is one of benign brain tumours whose treatment has changed remarkably. Cases were referred to us only when their size exceeded 2-3 cm in extrameatal diameter, as the smaller ones are treated by Gamma-knife. Thanks to development of intaroperative neurophysiological monitoring and of surgical technique, preservation of facial nerve function has improved from 60% to more than 85% in spite of the increase of size. Functional neurosurgery represented by microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm and trigeminal neuralgia pioneered by Prof. Jannetta and by the selective amgdalohippocampectomy SAHE for intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy MTLE pioneered by Prof. Yaargil both in 1970s were around 20/year respectively. Recently stereotactic intervention decreased remarkably. Shunting procedure for hydrocephalus malresorptivus (after subarachnoid hemorrhage and/or idiopathic) were around 100/year. Programmable valve (opening pressure can be changed magnetically percutaneously) has increased clinical effectiveness of the shunt. It was the authors pleasure to have succeeded the Neurochirurgische Universittsklinik Zrich directed by two foregoing giant neurosurgeons Prof. Krayenbhl and Prof. Yaargil and therefore to have completed a hard task more or less and have experienced considerable changing aspects of modern neurosurgery as mentioned above.
Injury to the peripheral nerves often induces produces spontaneous pain, hyperalgesia (increased responsiveness to noxious stimuli), and allodynia (painful responses to normally innocuous stimuli). In contrast to inflammatory pain, the currently available therapeutics for neuropathic pain are either relatively ineffective or accompanied by considerable side effects. Numerous animal models of chronic pain following nerve injury have been introduced. All these neuropathic pain models are generated by partial nerve injury, where a few primary afferents are axotomized, while the others are spared. Among these models, the L5 spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model is unique because in this model, the L4 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons are clearly separated from the axotomized L5 DRG neurons. Previous studies have focused considerable attention on the directly damaged primary afferents and their influence on the activity of the dorsal horn neurons. However, increasing evidence suggests that DRG neurons with intact axons also exhibit alterad excitability and gene expression, and these changes might play functional roles in the pathomechanisms of neuropathic pain. For example, L5 SNL increases the expression of substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and the transient receptor potential ion channels TRPV1 and TRPA1 in the uninjured L4 DRG neurons. Furthermore, compelling evidence suggests that the glial cells in the spinal cord may also play a role in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain. Recent studies have shown that peripheral nerve injury results in the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) in spinal glial cells and that MAPK inhibitors diminish nerve injury-induced pain hypersensitivity. This review mainly focuses on the DRG neurons and spinal glial cells and will review the roles of MAPK in the nociceptive pathways for neuropathic pain.
Presenilin-1 (PS1) is a multifunctional protein involved in many cellular functions including the processing of type 1 transmembrane proteins and regulation of calcium signaling. Although PS1 is important in many aspects of cellular functions, little is known about the PS1 gene regulation in the context of intracellular signal pathways. We tested the role of c-jun-NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) on PS1 gene expression using a JNK specific inhibitor, SP600125. SP600125 efficiently suppressed basal JNK activity in SK-N-SH cell line as shown by inhibition of phosphor-JNK and phosphor-c-jun, and also decreased PS1 expression. Previously we reported that Ets1/2 bind to the PS1 promoter to activate PS1 transcription and p53 represses PS1 transcription without direct binding to the PS1 promoter [Pastorcic, M., Das, H.K., 2000. Regulation of transcription of the human presenilin-1 gene by ets transcription factors and the p53 protooncogene. J Biol Chem. 275, 34938-45.]. Involvement of protein-protein interaction between p53 and other transcription factors was speculated to be a mechanism by which p53 represses PS1 expression. Therefore, we tested whether the interaction between p53 and Ets1/2 is involved in JNK-mediated inhibition of PS1 expression. In this report we showed that p53 level was upregulated by SP600125 in SK-N-SH cell line. In addition, protein-protein interaction between p53 and Ets1/2 was enhanced with a concomitant dissociation of Ets1/2 from the PS1 promoter resulting in the suppression of PS1 transcription. We also showed that suppression of JNK1 by JNK1 siRNA increased p53 protein level and decreased PS1 expression. This observation was supported by the fact that overexpression of p53 in SK-N-SH cell line promoted dissociation of Ets1/2 from the PS1 promoter and suppressed PS1 expression. Furthermore, p53 inhibitor pifithrin-alpha partially nullified the suppressive effects of SP600125 on PS1 expression. We also showed that transfection of p53 was required for SP600125-mediated suppression of PS1 expression in p53-deficient PC3 cell line suggesting that inhibition of basal JNK activity suppresses PS1 expression through a p53-dependent mechanism.
Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) learning occurs after the pairing of a novel taste with a toxin (e.g. sucrose with LiCl). The immediate early gene c-Fos is necessary for CTA learning, but c-Fos alone cannot be sufficient for consolidation. The expression of other AP-1 proteins from the Fos- and Jun-families may also be required shortly after conditioning for CTA consolidation. To screen for the expression of AP-1 transcription factors within small subregions, RT-PCR analysis was used after laser capture microdissection of the amygdala. Rats were infused intraorally with 5% sucrose (6 ml/6 min) or injected with LiCl (12 ml/kg, 0.15 M, i.p.) or given sucrose paired with LiCl (sucrose/LiCl), or not treated; 1 h later their brains were dissected. The lateral (LA), basolateral (BLA), and central (CeA) subnuclei of the amgydala of single 5 microm sections from individual rats were dissected using the Arcturus PixCell II system. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed the consistent presence of c-Fos, Fra-2, c-Jun, and JunD in the amygdala. In situ hybridization confirmed that c-Fos and Fra-2 mRNA expression was increased in the CeA after LiCl and sucrose/LiCl treatment. Immunohistochemistry for Fra-2 revealed high baseline levels of Fra-2 protein in the BLA and CeA, but also an increase in Fra-2 in the BLA and CeA after LiCl and sucrose/LiCl treatment. The similarity of response in LiCl and sucrose/LiCl treated groups might reflect activation by LiCl in both groups. To control for the effects of LiCl, rats were tested in a learned safety experiment. Fra-2 and c-Fos were examined in response to sucrose/LiCl in rats with prior familiarity with sucrose compared to rats without prior exposure to sucrose. The familiar (pre-exposure) group showed a significantly decreased number of Fra-2-positive cells compared with the novel group in the BLA, but not in the CeA. Because pre-exposure to sucrose attenuates CTA learning, a decreased cellular response in pre-exposed rats suggests a specific correlation with CTA learning. Changes in Fra-2 and c-Fos expression in the BLA and CeA at the time of conditioning, together with constitutive expression of c-Jun and JunD, may contribute to CTA learning.
Quantal analysis of transmitter release is useful in examining presynaptic mechanisms involved in synaptic transmission. However, in central neurons, the presence of multiple synapses makes it difficult to use the traditional quantal analysis, developed for the neuromuscular transmission. We developed a method to minimize these difficulties. Experiments were performed, using the whole-cell patch-clamp recording technique, on rat CA1 pyramidal neurons in a hippocampal slice preparation. When the stratum radiatum was stimulated, mixed current signals including, miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs), miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs), evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (eIPSCs) and evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs), could be observed in CA1 pyramidal cells while slices were superfused with the normal, Na(+)-containing, medium. The mIPSCs could be blocked by bicuculline (10 microm). mEPSCs, eEPSCs and eIPSCs could not be observed when the Na(+)-containing perfusion medium was replaced by a Na(+)-free medium but reappeared when the Na(+)-containing medium was re-introduced. When a polarizing electrode was placed near the recorded neuron, while slices were superfused with the Na(+)-free medium, and depolarizing rectangular current pulses of different magnitudes were applied, the number of mIPSCs increased with increasing amount of the current. Amplitudes of the mIPSCs showed a Gaussian distribution and the coefficient of variation was small. These observations indicate that a combination of the Na(+)-free superfusing medium and local depolarizations with a polarizing electrode is useful for recording mIPSCs from a localized area of the recorded neuron and for quantal analysis.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are a key structural component of the brain extracellular matrix. They are involved in critical neurodevelopmental functions and are one of the main components of pericellular aggregates known as perineuronal nets. As a step toward investigating their functional and pathophysiological roles in the human amygdala, we assessed the pattern of CSPG expression in the normal human amygdala using wisteria floribunda agglutinin (WFA) lectin histochemistry. Total numbers of WFA-labeled elements were measured in the lateral (LN), basal (BN), accessory basal (ABN) and cortical (CO) nuclei of the amygdala from 15 normal adult human subjects. For interspecies qualitative comparison, we also investigated the pattern of WFA labeling in the amygdala of nave rats (n=32) and rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta; n=6). In human amygdala, WFA lectin histochemistry resulted in labeling of perineuronal nets and cells with clear glial morphology, while neurons did not show WFA labeling. Total numbers of WFA-labeled glial cells showed high interindividual variability. These cells aggregated in clusters with a consistent between-subjects spatial distribution. In a subset of human subjects (n=5), dual color fluorescence using an antibody raised against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and WFA showed that the majority (93.7%) of WFA-labeled glial cells correspond to astrocytes. In rat and monkey amygdala, WFA histochemistry labeled perineuronal nets, but not glial cells. These results suggest that astrocytes are the main cell type expressing CSPGs in the adult human amygdala. Their highly segregated distribution pattern suggests that these cells serve specialized functions within human amygdalar nuclei.


Motor unit number estimation (MUNE) is an electrophysiological method designed to quantify motor unit loss in target muscles of interest. Most of the techniques are noninvasive and are therefore well suited for longitudinal monitoring. In this brief review, we describe the more commonly used techniques and their applications in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, poliomyelitis, spinal muscular atrophy and hereditary sensorimotor neuropathies. Findings in some of these studies offer important pathophysiological insights. Since conventional electrophysiologic methods are not sensible measures of motor neuronal loss, MUNE could play a potentially important role in the diagnosis, monitoring of disease progression and response to treatment in neuromuscular diseases in which motor unit loss is a major feature.

Acetazolomide (ACZ) and dexamethasone (DXM) alleviate vasogenic edema and inflammation in glioblastoma patients. Temozolomide (TMZ) is used for treating glioblastoma. We compared modulatory effects of ACZ and DXM on TMZ mediated apoptosis in human glioblastoma T98G and U87MG cells. Cells were treated with drug(s) for 6 h and then left in drug-free medium for 48 h. Although ACZ or DXM alone did not induce apoptosis, TMZ alone induced significant amount of apoptosis. Interestingly, ACZ pretreatment enhanced apoptosis while DXM pretreatment decreased apoptosis. These results suggest that combination chemotherapy with ACZ and TMZ may control inflammation and enhance apoptosis in glioblastoma.
Previous findings of widespread transcriptomic alteration in tissues from connexin null mice raise the issue of whether the transcriptomic changes are directly due to connexin down-regulation or to &quot;compensatory&quot; developmental alterations for the missing gene. To start addressing this question, the authors compared with wild-type control the gene expression profiles of connexin 43 (Cx43) knockout and Cx43siRNA knockdown wild-type cortical astrocytes. Array analysis revealed remarkable parallelism of transcriptomic changes in knockout and knockdown astrocytes, with similarly altered genes being located on all chromosomes and encoding proteins involved in a wide diversity of cell functions. Moreover, gene expression variability was analogously higher in Cx43 null and siRNA-treated astrocytes, and expression interlinkages were similarly altered among a selected subset of genes. This highly significant overlap between transcriptomic alterations in Cx43 knockout and knockdown astrocytes suggests that the widespread changes more likely reflect connexin-dependent Gene Regulatory Networks rather than developmental compensation for the missing gene.
Connexins and pannexins have been implicated in the formation of &quot;hemichannels,&quot; which may account for the uptake and release of membrane-impermeant molecules in single cells. The in vivo existence of &quot;hemichannels&quot; and their protein composition is still debated. Investigations on these matters are complicated by the lack of adequate negative controls. In search for such essential controls, the authors have investigated transformed (MIN6 line) and primary insulin-producing cells. Here, the authors report that these cells, which express Cx36 and pannexin 1, cannot be shown to display functional &quot;hemichannels,&quot; as evaluated by (1) uptake of the membrane-impermeant tracer ethidium bromide, whether in the presence or absence of extracellular Ca(2+), following stimulation of P2X(7) receptors, and after exposure to hypotonic medium; and (2) lack of exocytosis-independent release of endogenous ATP. Moreover, electrophysiological recordings indicated the absence of carbenoxolone-sensitive pannexin 1 currents evoked by membrane potentials above +30 mV. Thus, insulin-producing cells are expected to provide a useful tool in the further characterization of hemichannel composition, properties, and physiological relevance.
Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy is the most clinically advanced form of cell therapy, second to hematopoietic stem cell transplants. To date, MSC have been used for immune modulation in conditions such as Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD) and Crohn's Disease, for which Phase III clinical trials are currently in progress. Here, we review the immunological properties of MSC and make a case for their use in treatment of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1 (CMT1), a group of inherited peripheral neuropathies. CMT1 is characterized by demyelination and aberrant immune activation making this condition an ideal target for exploration of MSC therapy, given the ability of these cells to promote sheath regeneration as well as suppress inflammation. Studies supporting this hypothesis will be presented and placed into the context of other cell-based approaches that are theoretically feasible. Given that MSCs selectively home to areas of inflammation, as well as exert effects in an allogeneic manner, the possibility of an &quot;off the shelf&quot; therapy for CMT1 will be discussed.
Regular use of aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) has been associated with decreased incidence of cancer of the colon and other gastrointestinal organs. The chemopreventive properties of NSAIDs are due to their ability to induce apoptosis. Both COX-2-dependent and COX-2-independent mechanisms are involved in NSAIDs-induced neoplastic growth. This article reviews the recent literature that has revealed various important mechanisms of NSAIDs-induced apoptosis.

A consistent finding from functional neuroimaging studies of cognitive aging is an age-related reduction in occipital activity coupled with increased frontal activity. This posterior-anterior shift in aging (PASA) has been typically attributed to functional compensation. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging sought to 1) confirm that PASA reflects the effects of aging rather than differences in task difficulty; 2) test the compensation hypothesis; and 3) investigate whether PASA generalizes to deactivations. Young and older participants were scanned during episodic retrieval and visual perceptual tasks, and age-related changes in brain activity common to both tasks were identified. The study yielded 3 main findings. First, inconsistent with a difficulty account, the PASA pattern was found across task and confidence levels when matching performance among groups. Second, supporting the compensatory hypothesis, age-related increases in frontal activity were positively correlated with performance and negatively correlated with the age-related occipital decreases. Age-related increases and correlations with parietal activity were also found. Finally, supporting the generalizability of the PASA pattern to deactivations, aging reduced deactivations in posterior midline cortex but increased deactivations in medial frontal cortex. Taken together, these findings demonstrate the validity, function, and generalizability of PASA, as well as its importance for the cognitive neuroscience of aging.
Sensory stimuli under natural conditions often consist of a temporally irregular sequence of events, contrasting with the periodic sequences commonly used as stimuli in the laboratory. These experiments compared the responses of neurons in rat barrel cortex with trains of whisker movements with different frequencies; each train possessed either a periodic or an irregular, &quot;noisy&quot; temporal structure. Periodic stimulus trains were composed of a sequence of 21 whisker deflections separated by 20 equal interdeflection intervals (IDIs). Noisy trains were matched for mean IDI but included intervals shorter and longer than the mean IDI. Cortical responses were equivalent for periodic and noisy stimuli for frequencies up to 10 Hz. Above 10 Hz, temporal noise led to a larger response magnitude, and this effect was amplified as deflection frequency increased. Noise also caused a sharpening of the temporal precision of response to the individual deflections of the stimulus train. Cortical neurons thus appear to be &quot;tuned&quot; to respond in a different way to stimuli characterized by temporal unpredictability. As a consequence, perceptual judgments that depend on somatosensory cortical firing rate may be affected by the presence of temporal noise.
Drug-induced arrhythmias, particularly those caused by a prolonged QT interval, have become a critical safety issue for compound selection during development by pharmaceutical companies and for health care regulators. The last two decades have witnessed enormous progress in the definition of the clinical conditions that facilitate the occurrence of such serious adverse effects, of its molecular basis, and in the preclinical strategies aimed at early identification of the cardiotoxic liability of compounds undergoing investigation or already used in the clinic. Moreover, despite the fact that acquired factors play an obvious role in drug-induced arrhythmias, it has become evident that the disease is often manifested upon the interaction of strong environmental stressors with specific genetic determinants of the affected individuals; in that sense, few examples can illustrate the existing interaction between acquired and genetic factors in disease manifestation better than drug-induced arrhythmogenesis. Progress in this field has been mainly driven by a strong interaction among various disciplines, including medicinal chemistry, pharmacology, electrophysiology, molecular genetics, and clinical cardiology; such an interdisciplinary approach has often generated unexpected discoveries of great clinical value, allowing clinicians to drive drug selection toward compounds of proven efficacy and safety. Historically, studies on antihistamines have paved the way for much of our current understanding of the mechanisms and problems associated with QT prolongation and drug-induced arrhythmogenesis; therefore, in this perspective, we will attempt to summarize how basic research studies have helped the interpretation of clinically relevant phenomena (from basics to clinics...) and how this information has prompted new emphasis in preclinical studies aimed at predicting the cardiotoxic potential of compounds (...and back). The current availability of several strategies provided with great predictive potential, together with an increased awareness of physicians, pharmaceutical industries, and health care regulators to this potentially serious cardiovascular side effect, has significantly decreased the risk associated with drug-induced arrhythmias caused by drugs newly introduced into the market; nevertheless, given the large number of cases of QT prolongation still occurring during treatment with a wide variety of congeners, it seems appropriate to review the issue of the cardiotoxic actions of antihistamines, as a better comprehension of the underlying mechanisms and risk factors is likely to contribute to the improvement of the risk/benefit ratio for pharmacological treatment in several therapeutic areas.





It has been hypothesized that a local processing bias underlies overall visuospatial impairments in Williams syndrome (WS). However, recent studies have challenged this hypothesis by providing evidence against a local processing bias at the perceptual level. The aim of the present study was to further examine drawing and perceptual skills in children with WS using closely matched-hierarchical stimuli. In the drawing task children with WS exhibited a local processing bias. However, no significant preferential bias was found in the perceptual task. This indicates that children with WS do not systematically present a preferential bias for local information. Taken together the findings of the present study suggest that perceptual processing deficits per se are unlikely to explain local processing biases in visuoconstructive tasks often described in people with WS.
1. Although increasing evidence suggests that salt-sensitive hypertension is a disorder of the central nervous system (CNS), little is known about the critical proteins (e.g. ion channels or exchangers) that play a role in the pathogenesis of the disease. 2. Central pathways involved in the regulation of arterial pressure have been investigated. In addition, systems such as the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis, initially characterized in the periphery, are present in the CNS and seem to play a role in the regulation of arterial pressure. 3. Central administration of amiloride, or its analogue benzamil hydrochloride, has been shown to attenuate several forms of salt-sensitive hypertension. In addition, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) benzamil effectively blocks pressor responses to acute osmotic stimuli, such as i.c.v. hypertonic saline. Amiloride or its analogues have been shown to interact with the brain renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) and to effect the expression of endogenous ouabain-like compounds. Alterations of brain RAAS function and/or endobain expression could play a role in the interaction between amiloride compounds and arterial pressure. Peripheral treatments with benzamil, even at higher doses than those given centrally, have little or no effect on arterial pressure. These data provide strong evidence that benzamil-sensitive proteins (BSPs) of the CNS play a role in cardiovascular responsiveness to sodium. 4. Mineralocorticoids have been linked to human hypertension; many patients with essential hypertension respond well to pharmacological agents antagonizing the mineralocorticoid receptor and certain genetic forms of hypertension are caused by chronically elevated levels of aldosterone. The deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt model of hypertension is a benzamil-sensitive model that incorporates several factors implicated in the aetiology of human disease, including mineralocorticoid action and increased dietary sodium. The DOCA-salt model is ideal for investigating the role of BSPs in the pathogenesis of hypertension, because mineralocorticoid action has been shown to modulate the activity of at least one benzamil-sensitive protein, namely the epithelial sodium channel. 5. Characterizing the BSPs involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension may provide a novel clinical target. Further studies are necessary to determine which BSPs are involved and where, in the nervous system, they are located.

Holoprosencephaly (HPE), characterized by incomplete separation of forebrain and facial components into left and right sides, is a common developmental defect in humans. It is caused by both genetic and environmental factors and its severity covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes. The genetic interactions underlying inherited forms of HPE are complex and poorly understood. Animal models, in particular mouse mutants, are providing a growing understanding of how the forebrain develops and how the cerebral hemispheres become split into left and right sides. These insights, along with the characterization to date of some of the genes involved in human HPE, suggest that two distinct mechanisms underlie the major classes of HPE, 'classic' and midline interhemispheric (MIH). Disruption either directly or indirectly of the ventralizing effect of sonic hedgehog signaling appears central to all or most forms of classic HPE, while disruption of the dorsalizing effect of bone morphogenetic protein signaling may be key to cases of MIH HPE.

The authors report a rare case of an aneurysm arising at fenestrated anterior cerebral artery. The embryogenesis of this anatomical variation is discussed along with the review of relevant literature. Management of such lesions depends upon the location and morphology of the aneurysms and intracranial vascular anatomy. The authors discuss various management options and highlight possible technical difficulties that can be encountered in the surgical management of this rare sub-group of aneurysms.







Developmental disabilities (e.g. attention deficit disorder; cerebral palsy) are frequently associated with deviations of the typical pattern of motor skill maturation. Neurophysiologic tools, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), which probe motor cortex function, can potentially provide insights into both typical neuromotor maturation and the mechanisms underlying the motor skill deficits in children with developmental disabilities. These insights may set the stage for finding effective interventions for these disorders. We review the literature pertaining to the use of TMS in pediatrics. Most TMS-evoked parameters show age-related changes in typically developing children and some of these are abnormal in a number of childhood-onset neurological disorders. Although no TMS-evoked parameters are diagnostic for any disorder, changes in certain parameters appear to reflect disease burden or may provide a measure of treatment-related improvement. Furthermore, TMS may be especially useful when combined with other neurophysiologic modalities (e.g. fMRI). However, much work remains to be done to determine if TMS-evoked parameters can be used as valid and reliable biomarkers for disease burden, the natural history of neurological injury and repair, and the efficacy of pharmacological and rehabilitation interventions.
Patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) who are treated with the antiglutamatergic drug riluzole receive a fixed-dose regimen of 50 mg b.i.d. The drug has been shown to increase tracheostomy-free survival by 3-6 months. The pharmacokinetics of riluzole show a high interindividual variability. Riluzole serum concentrations are associated with side effects and ALS symptoms, but the effect of the actual blood level of riluzole on disease progression and survival is unknown. We measured trough and peak serum concentrations of riluzole in 160 patients with ALS, and estimated the area under the curve for one dosage interval (AUCi) using a Bayesian method. We then determined the association between riluzole AUCi and survival over a 5-year period, and between riluzole AUCi and disease progression, defined by the rates of decline of arm strength and vital lung capacity. No significant association was found between riluzole AUCi and survival or disease progression.
Somatization disorder is a somatoform disorder that overlaps with a number of functional somatic syndromes and has high comorbidity with major depression and anxiety disorders. Proposals have been made for revising the category of somatoform disorders, for simplifying the criteria for somatization disorder, and for emphasizing the unitary nature of the functional somatic syndromes in future classifications. A review of the cognitive-affective neuroscience of somatization disorder and related conditions suggests that overlapping psychobiological mechanisms mediate depression, anxiety, and somatization symptoms. Particular genes and environments may contribute to determining whether symptoms are predominantly depressive, anxious, or somatic, and there are perhaps also overlaps and distinctions in the distal evolutionary mechanisms that produce these symptoms.

&quot;Closing-in behaviour&quot; (CIB) is a phenomenon observed on copying and imitation tasks, in which the copy is made inappropriately close to or on top of the model. CIB is classified clinically as a manifestation of constructional apraxia (CA), but its underlying causes are not understood. Compensation hypotheses propose that CIB is a strategic adaptation to underlying deficits in visuospatial and/or memory functions. The attraction hypothesis suggests that CIB reflects a primitive default behaviour in which the acting hand is drawn towards the focus of visual attention. We tested between these hypotheses in a 62-year-old woman with moderate Alzheimer's disease precipitating CA and apraxia, who showed marked CIB in graphic copying and gesture imitation. We presented two dual tasks: In the first, a straight-line drawing task was combined with a letter-reading task; in the second, simple gesture production was combined with a letter-reading task. In each case, the patient's productions deviated markedly towards the location of the reading task. These data provide strong support for the attraction hypothesis and show that CIB is not specific to copying.
Recent findings from spatial cognition and cognitive neuroscience suggest that different types of mental representations could mediate the off-line retrieval of spatial relations from memory and the on-line guidance of motor actions in space. As a result, a number of models proposing multiple systems of spatial memory have been recently formulated. In the present article we review these models and we evaluate their postulates based on available experimental evidence. Furthermore, we discuss how a multiple-system model can apply to situations in which people reason about their immediate surroundings or non-immediate environments by incorporating a model of sensorimotor facilitation/interference. This model draws heavily on previous accounts of sensorimotor interference and takes into account findings from the stimulus-response compatibility literature.
Capacity limits in linguistic short-term memory (STM) are typically measured with forward span tasks in which participants are asked to recall lists of words in the order presented. Using such tasks, native signers of American Sign Language (ASL) exhibit smaller spans than native speakers ([Boutla, M., Supalla, T., Newport, E. L., &amp; Bavelier, D. (2004). Short-term memory span: Insights from sign language. Nature Neuroscience, 7(9), 997-1002]). Here, we test the hypothesis that this population difference reflects differences in the way speakers and signers maintain temporal order information in short-term memory. We show that native signers differ from speakers on measures of short-term memory that require maintenance of temporal order of the tested materials, but not on those in which temporal order is not required. In addition, we show that, in a recall task with free order, bilingual subjects are more likely to recall in temporal order when using English than ASL. We conclude that speakers and signers do share common short-term memory processes. However, whereas short-term memory for spoken English is predominantly organized in terms of temporal order, we argue that this dimension does not play as great a role in signers' short-term memory. Other factors that may affect STM processes in signers are discussed.
The present study addresses the question of how such an abstract concept as time is represented by our cognitive system. Specifically, the aim was to assess whether temporal information is cognitively represented through left-to-right spatial coordinates, as already shown for other ordered sequences (e.g., numbers). In Experiment 1, the task-relevant information was the temporal duration of a cross. RTs were shorter when short and long durations had to be responded to with left and right hands, respectively, than with the opposite stimulus-response mapping. The possible explanation that the foreperiod effect (i.e., shorter RTs for longer durations) is greater with right than with left hand responses is discarded by results of Experiment 2, in which right and left hand responses alternated block-wise in a variable foreperiod paradigm. Other explanations concerning manual or hemispheric asymmetries may be excluded based on the results of control experiments, which show that the compatibility effect between response side and cross duration occurs for accuracy when responses are given with crossed hands (Experiment 3), and for RTs when responses are given within one hand (Experiment 4). This pattern suggests that elapsing time, similarly to other ordered information, is represented in some circumstances through an internal spatial reference frame, in a way that may influence motor performance. Finally, in Experiment 5, the temporal duration was parametrically varied using different values for each response category (i.e., 3 short and 3 long durations). The compatibility effect between hand and duration was replicated, but followed a rectangular function of the duration. The shape of this function is discussed in relation to the specific task demands.
Studies of monolingual speakers have shown a strong association between lexical learning and short-term memory (STM) capacity, especially STM for serial order information. At the same time, studies of bilingual speakers suggest that phonological knowledge is the main factor that drives lexical learning. This study tested these two hypotheses simultaneously in participants with variable levels of English-French bilingual proficiency. A word-nonword paired-associate learning task was administered, with nonwords obeying French phonotactic patterns. French phonological knowledge was estimated by a composite French proficiency score summarizing productive and receptive French vocabulary knowledge as well as quantitative and qualitative measures of French exposure. STM measures maximized retention of order information (serial order reconstruction) or retention of phonological item information (single nonword delayed repetition). The French proficiency score and the serial order STM measure independently predicted performance on the paired-associate learning task. These results highlight the conjoined role of phonological knowledge and serial order STM in lexical learning. Importantly, serial order STM remains a strong predictor of lexical learning, even for bilingual individuals who have broad phonological knowledge.
The vast amount of heterogeneous data generated in various fields of neurosciences such as neuropsychopharmacology can hardly be classified using traditional databases. We present here the concept of a virtual archive, spatially referenced over a simplified 3D brain map and accessible over the Internet. A simple prototype (available at http://aquatics.crs4.it/neuropsydat3d) has been realized using current Web-based virtual reality standards and technologies. It illustrates how primary literature or summary information can easily be retrieved through hyperlinks mapped onto a 3D schema while navigating through neuroanatomy. Furthermore, 3D navigation and visualization techniques are used to enhance the representation of brain's neurotransmitters, pathways and the involvement of specific brain areas in any particular physiological or behavioral functions. The system proposed shows how the use of a schematic spatial organization of data, widely exploited in other fields (e.g. Geographical Information Systems) can be extremely useful to develop efficient tools for research and teaching in neurosciences.




Controlled differentiation of embryonic stem (ES) cells into clinically relevant cell types is a fundamental goal of stem cell research. This unit describes one of the most efficient protocols for conversion of mouse ES cells into a defined type of nerve cells, the spinal motor neurons. ES cells are separated from feeder mouse embryonic fibroblasts and aggregated to form embryoid bodies (EBs). Two days after the withdrawal of growth factors, EBs reach a stage at which they are responsive to patterning signals and can be effectively induced with retinoic acid (RA) to differentiate into spinal nerve cells. Nascent neural cells become responsive to the ventralizing signal sonic hedgehog (Hh) that controls expression of ventral spinal progenitor markers and initiates the genetic program of motor neuron differentiation.
As a novel neurotherapeutic strategy, stem cell transplantation has received considerable attention. However, little focus of this attention has been devoted to the probabilities of success of stem cell therapies for specific neurological disorders. Given the complexities of the cellular organization of the nervous system and the manner in which it is assembled during development, it seems unlikely that a cellular replacement strategy will succeed for any but the simplest of neurological disorders in the near future. A general strategy for stem cell transplantation to prevent or minimize neurological disorders is much more likely to succeed. The lysosomal storage diseases represent the quintessential neurodegenerative diseases for which preventative stem cell transplantation will both likely succeed and set the stage for therapeutic approaches to other neurodegenerative diseases.
To elucidate the mechanisms that regulate neuronal placement and integration in the cerebellar circuitry, we assessed the fate of Purkinje cells transplanted to embryonic, juvenile and adult hosts, asking how architectural changes of the developing cortex influence their anatomical incorporation. Donor Purkinje cells navigate through the host parenchyma either along their natural migratory pathway or following unusual routes. In the latter case, donor neurons fail to orientate correctly and to establish the cortico-nuclear projection. Purkinje cells that follow the physiological route achieve the typical orientation and connectivity, but end displaced in the molecular layer if their arrival in the recipient cortex is delayed. Navigation routes and final settling of donor neurons vary with host age, depending on the ontogenetic construction of cortical layering, and particularly on the maturation of granule cells. The migratory behavior and homing of transplanted Purkinje cells is modified after external granular layer ablation, or neutralization of reelin signaling produced by granule cells. Therefore, although the cerebellar milieu remains receptive for Purkinje cells even after the end of development, correct placement of donor neurons depends on the timing of their migration, related to cerebellar developmental dynamics and granule cell layering.
Vertebrate cranial ectodermal placodes are transient, paired thickenings of embryonic head ectoderm that are crucial for the formation of the peripheral sensory nervous system: they give rise to the paired peripheral sense organs (olfactory organs, inner ears and anamniote lateral line system), as well as the eye lenses, and most cranial sensory neurons. Here, we present the first detailed spatiotemporal fate-maps in any vertebrate for the ophthalmic trigeminal (opV) and maxillomandibular trigeminal (mmV) placodes, which give rise to cutaneous sensory neurons in the ophthalmic and maxillomandibular lobes of the trigeminal ganglion. We used focal DiI and DiO labelling to produce eight detailed fate-maps of chick embryonic head ectoderm over approximately 24 h of development, from 0-16 somites. OpV and mmV placode precursors arise from a partially overlapping territory; indeed, some individual dyespots labelled both opV and mmV placode-derived cells. OpV and mmV placode precursors are initially scattered within a relatively large region of ectoderm adjacent to the neural folds, intermingled both with each other and with future epidermal cells, and with geniculate and otic placode precursors. Although the degree of segregation increases with time, there is no clear border between the opV and mmV placodes even at the 16-somite stage, long after neurogenesis has begun in the opV placode, and when neurogenesis is just beginning in the mmV placode. Finally, we find that occasional cells in the border region between the opV placode and mmV placode express both Pax3 (an opV placode specific marker) and Neurogenin1 (an mmV placode specific marker), suggesting that a few cells are responding to both opV and mmV placode-inducing signals. Overall, our results fill a large gap in our knowledge of the early stages of development of both the opV and mmV placodes, providing an essential framework for subsequent studies of the molecular control of their development.
Bullwhip and mini-bullwhip cells are unconventional types of retinal neurons that utilize the neuropeptides glucagon, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) and substance P. These cells have been implicated in regulating the proliferation of neural progenitors in the circumferential marginal zone (CMZ) of the chicken retina. The purpose of this study was to investigate the roles of the bullwhip cells in regulating ocular size and shape. We found that intravitreal delivery of colchicine at postnatal day 7 destroys the vast majority (approximately 98%) of the bullwhip and mini-bullwhip cells and their peptidergic terminals that are concentrated in the CMZ near the equator of the eye. Interestingly, colchicine-treatment resulted in excessive ocular growth that involved the expansion of equatorial diameter, but not axial length. Intraocular injections of glucagon completely prevented the equatorial expansion that occurs with colchicine-treatment. In eyes with undamaged retinas, exogenous glucagon suppressed equatorial eye growth, whereas glucagon receptor antagonists caused excessive equatorial growth. Furthermore, visual stimuli that increase or decrease rates of ocular growth caused a down- or up-regulation, respectively, of the immediate early gene Egr1 in the bullwhip cells; indicating that the activity of the bullwhip cells is regulated by growth-guiding visual cues. We found that the glucagon receptor was expressed by cells in the fibrous and cartilaginous sclera in equatorial regions of the eye. Taken together, these findings suggest that glucagon peptide released from the terminals of the bullwhip and mini-bullwhip cells regulates the growth of the equatorial sclera in a vision-dependent manner. Although the bullwhip and mini-bullwhip cells are not abundant, less than 1000 cells per retina, their influence on the development of the eye is substantial and includes vision-guided ocular growth.
Cerebellar granule cell precursors (GCPs), which give rise to the most abundant neuronal type in the mammalian brain, arise from a restricted pool of primary progenitors in the rhombic lip (RL). Sonic hedgehog (Shh) secreted by developing Purkinje cells is essential for the expansion of GCPs and for cerebellar morphogenesis. Recent studies have shown that the primary cilium concentrates components of Shh signaling and that this structure is required for Shh signaling. GCPs have a primary cilium on their surface [Del Cerro, M.P., Snider, R.S. (1972). Studies on the developing cerebellum. II. The ultrastructure of the external granular layer. J Comp Neurol 144, 131-64.]. Here, we show that 1) this cilium can be conditionally ablated by crossing Kif3a(fl/-) mice with hGFAP-Cre mice, 2) removal of Kif3a from GCPs disrupts cerebellar development, and 3) these defects are due to a drastic reduction in Shh-dependent expansion of GCPs. A similar phenotype is observed when Smoothened (Smo), an essential transducer of Shh signaling, is removed from the same population of GCPs. Interestingly, Kif3a-Smo double conditional mutants show that Kif3a is epistatic to Smo. This work shows that Kif3a is essential for Shh-dependent expansion of cerebellar progenitors. Dysfunctional cilia are associated with diverse human disorders including Bardet-Biedl and Joubert syndromes. Cerebellar abnormalities observed in these patients could be explained by defects in Shh-induced GCP expansion.
Although Hedgehog (HH) signaling plays a critical role in patterning the ventral midbrain, its role in early midbrain specification is not known. We examined the midbrains of sonic hedgehog (Shh) and smoothened (Smo) mutant mice where HH signaling is respectively attenuated and eliminated. We show that some ventral (Evx1+) cell fates are specified in the Shh-/- mouse in a Ptc1- and Gli1-independent manner. HH-independent ventral midbrain induction was further confirmed by the presence of a Pax7-negative ventral midbrain territory in both Shh-/- and Smo-/- mice at and before embryonic day (E) 8.5. Midbrain signaling centers are severely disrupted in the Shh-/- mutant. Interestingly, dorsal markers are up-regulated (Wnt1, Gdf7, Pax7), down-regulated (Lfng), or otherwise altered (Zic1) in the Shh-/- midbrain. Together with the increased cell death seen specifically in Shh-/- dorsal midbrains (E8.5-E9), our results suggest specific regulation of dorsal patterning by SHH, rather than a simple deregulation due to its absence.
The thyroid in vertebrates and its homolog, the endostyle in nonvertebrate chordates, share a molecular code for dorsoventral patterning. Little is yet known, however, about mechanisms that pattern the endostyle's anterior-posterior (AP) axis. To extend our understanding of thyroid development and evolution, we studied Oikopleura dioica, a larvacean urochordate that retains a chordate body plan as adults. Transcription factor expression domains revealed AP regionalization of the endostyle, with expression of Otx rostrally, Hox1 caudally, and two Pax2/5/8 paralogs centrally. Comparative analysis suggested that the endostyle of stem chordates expressed orthologs of these genes and that ancestral subfunctions partitioned differentially among lineages. Because the ordered expression of Otx, Pax2/5/8, and Hox1 displays patterning in both the endodermally derived endostyle and the ectodermally derived central nervous system, we propose that this gene set belonged to the developmental genetic toolkit of stem bilaterians and repeatedly provided AP positional information in various developmental situations.
The disorders of the neuromuscular junction seen in children, the congenital myasthenic syndromes and autoimmune myasthenia gravis, are very rare. Their clinical symptoms and signs may be variable, most notably in the neonate and infant. They should enter the differential diagnosis of many different clinical presentations, such as 'floppy infant' or attacks of episodic apnoea. Many molecular genetic abnormalities have been discovered in congenital myasthenic syndromes, but screening for these is impracticable without confirmation of a disorder of the neuromuscular junction. In this review, the different neurophysiological tests that can be used are discussed, with their merits and contraindications in children. After consideration of the acceptability of the different techniques, it has been found that stimulation single-fibre electromyography (stimSFEMG) of orbicularis oculi seems to be the best choice in children. In most instances it can be performed on the conscious child and it has a good specificity and high sensitivity. A protocol for using stimSFEMG is described.
Mass spectrometry (MS) has become an essential tool for the detection, identification, and characterization of the molecular components of biological processes, such as those responsible for the dynamic properties of the nervous system. Generally, the application of these powerful techniques requires the destruction of the specimen under study, but recent technological advances have made it possible to apply the matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) MS technique directly to tissue sections. The major advantage of direct MALDI analysis is that it enables the acquisition of local molecular expression profiles, while maintaining the topographic integrity of the tissue and avoiding time-consuming extraction, purification, and separation steps, which have the potential for introducing artifacts. With automation and the ability to display complex spectral data using imaging software, it is now possible to create multiple 2D maps of selected biomolecules in register with tissue sections, a method now known as MALDI Imaging, or MSI (for Mass Spectrometry Imaging). This creates, for example, an opportunity to correlate functional states, determined a priori with live recording or imaging, with the corresponding molecular maps obtained at the time the tissue is frozen and analyzed with MSI. We review the increasing application of MALDI Imaging to the analysis of molecular distributions of proteins and peptides in nervous tissues of both vertebrates and invertebrates, focusing in particular on recent studies of neurodegenerative diseases and early efforts to implement assays of neuronal development.
Dendritic spines are the postsynaptic sites of most excitatory synapses in the mammalian brain. With the advent of two-photon microscopy and transgenic mice expressing fluorescent proteins, dendritic spines can now be imaged in the living cerebral cortex over time scales ranging from seconds to years. Recent studies with this in vivo imaging approach have begun to provide important insights into the development and plasticity of dendritic spines in the intact brain. Here, we review these studies and discuss technical requirements for image acquisition. We envision that intravital two-photon imaging at the level of individual synapses will greatly expand our current understandings of how neuronal networks are assembled and modified throughout life.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) provides a unique method of monitoring infant brain function by measuring the changes in the concentrations of oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin. During the past 10 years, NIRS measurement of the developing brain has rapidly expanded. In this article, a brief discussion of the general principles of NIRS, including its technical advantages and limitations, is followed by a detailed review of the role played so far by NIRS in the study of infant perception and cognition, including language, and visual and auditory functions. Results have highlighted, in particular, the developmental changes of cerebral asymmetry associated with speech acquisition. Finally, suggestions for future studies of neurocognitive development using NIRS are presented. Although NIRS studies of the infant brain have yet to fulfill their potential, a review of the work done so far indicates that NIRS is likely to provide many unique insights in the field of developmental neuroscience.
With the development of functional neuroimaging tools, the past two decades have witnessed an explosion of work examining functional brain maps, mostly in the adult brain. Against this backdrop of work in adults, developmental research begins to gather a substantial body of knowledge about brain maturation. The purpose of this review is to present some of these findings from the perspective of functional neuroimaging. First, a brief survey of available neuroimaging techniques (i.e., fMRI, MRS, MEG, PET, SPECT, and infrared techniques) is provided. Next, the key cognitive, emotional, and social changes taking place during adolescence are outlined. The third section gives examples of how these behavioral changes can be understood from a neuroscience perspective. The conclusion places this functional neuroimaging research in relation to clinical and molecular work, and shows how answers will ultimately come from the combined efforts of these disciplines.
A biological mother's movement appears necessary for optimal development in infant monkeys. However, nursery-reared monkeys are typically provided with inanimate surrogate mothers that move very little. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of a novel, highly mobile surrogate mother on motor development, exploration, and reactions to novelty. Six infant rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) were reared on mobile hanging surrogates (MS) and compared to six infants reared on standard stationary rocking surrogates (RS) and to 9-15 infants reared with their biological mothers (MR) for early developmental outcome. We predicted that MS infants would develop more similarly to MR infants than RS infants. In neonatal assessments conducted at Day 30, both MS and MR infants showed more highly developed motor activity than RS infants on measures of grasping (p = .009), coordination (p = .038), spontaneous crawl (p = .009), and balance (p = .003). At 2-3 months of age, both MS and MR infants displayed higher levels of exploration in the home cage than RS infants (p = .016). In a novel situation in which only MS and RS infants were tested, MS infants spent less time near their surrogates in the first five minutes of the test session than RS infants (p = .05), indicating a higher level of comfort. Collectively, these results suggest that when nursery-rearing of infant monkeys is necessary, a mobile hanging surrogate may encourage more normative development of gross motor skills and exploratory behavior and may serve as a useful alternative to stationary or rocking surrogates.
One of the most significant problems facing developmental biologists who do not work on an organism with well-developed genetics - and even for some who do - is how to inhibit the action of a gene of interest during development so as to learn about its normal biological function. A widely adopted approach is to use antisense technologies, and especially morpholino antisense oligonucleotides. In this article, we review the use of such reagents and present examples of how they have provided insights into developmental mechanisms. We also discuss how the use of morpholinos can lead to misleading results, including off-target effects, and we suggest controls that will allow researchers to interpret morpholino experiments correctly.
Stem cells are captivating because they have the potential to make multiple cell types yet maintain their undifferentiated state. Recent studies of Drosophila and mammalian neural stem cells have shed light on how stem cells regulate self-renewal versus differentiation and have revealed the proteins, processes and pathways that all converge to regulate neural progenitor self-renewal. If we can better understand how stem cells balance self-renewal versus differentiation, we will significantly advance our knowledge of embryogenesis, cancer biology and brain evolution, as well as the use of stem cells for therapeutic purposes.

Estrogen-based hormone therapy (HT) in postmenopausal women may reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), although HT remains controversial. One key concern with HT is the potential of adverse outcomes such as breast and uterine cancer. A promising strategy to maximize HT benefits and minimize HT risks is the use of selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) that exert tissue-specific estrogenic effects. To begin investigating the SERM approach in reducing the risk of AD, we investigated whether AD-like neuropathology in the 3xTg-AD mouse model of AD is regulated by the SERMs propylpyrazole triol (PPT) and diarylpropionitrile (DPN) that exhibit relative specificity for estrogen receptor-alpha and -beta, respectively. Consistent with our previous observations, we found that ovariectomy-induced hormone depletion in adult female 3xTg-AD mice significantly increased accumulation of beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) and decreased hippocampal-dependent behavioral performance. Treatment with 17beta-estradiol (E2) prevented the ovariectomized-induced worsening of both pathologies. PPT treatment was similar to E2 in terms of reducing Abeta accumulation in hippocampus, subiculum, and amygdala but comparatively less effective in frontal cortex. In contrast, DPN did not significantly reduce Abeta accumulation in hippocampus and subiculum, was partially effective in frontal cortex, and nearly as effective as E2 in amygdala. Furthermore, PPT but not DPN mimicked the ability of E2 to improve behavioral performance. These findings provide initial evidence of beneficial actions of SERMs in a mouse model of AD and support continued investigation of SERMs as an alternative to estrogen-based HT in reducing the risk of AD in postmenopausal women.
Gene variants of the FTO (fatso) gene have recently been strongly associated with body mass index and obesity. The FTO gene is well conserved and found in a single copy in vertebrate species including fish and chicken, suggesting that the ancestor of this gene was present 450 million years ago. Surprisingly, the FTO gene is present in two species of algae but not in any other invertebrate species. This could indicate that this gene has undergone a horizontal gene transfer. Quantitative real-time PCR showed that the gene is expressed in many peripheral and central rat tissues. Detailed in situ hybridization analysis in the mouse brain showed abundant expression in feeding-related nuclei of the brainstem and hypothalamus, such as the nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema, and arcuate, paraventricular, and supraoptic nuclei as well as in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Colabeling showed that the FTO gene is predominantly expressed in neurons, whereas it was virtually not found in astrocytes or glia cells. The FTO was significantly up-regulated (41%) in the hypothalamus of rats after 48-h food deprivation. We also found a strong negative correlation of the FTO expression level with the expression of orexigenic galanin-like peptide, which is mainly synthesized in the arcuate nucleus. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that FTO could participate in the central control of energy homeostasis.
There is mounting evidence that seizures are preceded by characteristic changes in the EEG that are detectable minutes before seizure onset. Using novel signal analysis techniques, researchers are beginning to characterize the transition from the interictal to the ictal state in quantitative terms. This research has led to the development of automated seizure prediction algorithms. Active debate persists regarding the interpretation of research results, methods of signal analysis, as well as experimental and statistical methods for testing seizure prediction algorithms. Developments in this field have led to new theories on the mechanism of seizure development and resolution. The ability to predict seizures could lead the way to novel diagnostic and therapeutic methods for the treatment of patients with epilepsy.
During postnatal development of the central nervous system (CNS), the response of GABA(A) receptors to its agonist undergoes maturation from depolarizing to hyperpolarizing. This switch in polarity is due to the developmental decrease of the intracellular Cl concentration in neurons. Here we show that absence of NKCC1 in P9-P13 CA3 pyramidal neurons, through genetic manipulation or through bumetanide inhibition, results in a significant increase in cell excitability. Furthermore, the pro-convulsant agent 4-aminopyridine induces seizure-like events in NKCC1-null mice but not in wild-type mice. Measurements of muscimol responses in the presence and absence of NKCC1 shows that the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter only marginally affects intracellular Cl(-) in P9-P13 CA3 principal neurons. However, large increases in intracellular Cl(-) are observed in CA3 pyramidal neurons following increased hyperexcitability, indicating that P9-P13 CA3 pyramidal neurons lack robust mechanisms to regulate intracellular Cl(-) during high synaptic activity. This increase in the Cl(-) concentration is network-driven and activity-dependent, as it is blocked by the non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist DNQX. We also show that expression of the outward K-Cl cotransporter, KCC2, prevents the development of hyperexcitability, as a reduction of KCC2 expression by half results in increased susceptibility to seizure under control and 4-AP conditions.
Consequences of seizures in the developing brain are not completely understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the long-term alterations of synaptic transmission and seizure susceptibility in the hippocampus after early-life seizures induced by systemic injection of a GABA(B)-receptor antagonist CGP56999A in immature rats. Experimental rats were injected with CGP56999A 1-1.5mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.) on postnatal day 15, while controls were injected with saline i.p. Seizures induced by CGP56999A originated mostly from the hippocampus and amygdala, and were associated with no mortality. Thirty days after seizures, laminar field potentials were recorded in the hippocampus in urethane-anesthetized rats by 16-channel silicon probes and analyzed as current source density. As compared to early-life saline-injected rats, early-life CGP56999A-induced seizure rats showed a significant decrease in paired-pulse inhibition of population spikes at 150-400 ms interpulse intervals (IPIs) in CA1, following CA3 stimulation, and at 400 ms IPI in the dentate gyrus, following medial perforant path stimulation. In a separate experiment, adolescent rats that experienced CGP56999A-induced early-life seizures showed a robust facilitation of hippocampal kindling, as compared to saline controls. In conclusion, seizures induced by GABA(B)-receptor blockade in immature rats resulted in a long-lasting loss of GABA(B)-receptor mediated paired-pulse inhibition in CA1 and dentate gyrus, which may contribute to the increase of seizure susceptibility in the hippocampus.
Attention difficulties have been reported in children with benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS) but have not yet been fully specified. The aim of this study was to evaluate the functions of exogenous and endogenous spatial orienting of attention and alerting in these children. Two versions of the spatial cueing paradigm and an alerting task, including trials with and without warning signal, were performed by 25 children with BECTS aged 6-12 years and 25 controls matched for age, gender and IQ. In these three tasks, patients were slower and made more omissions than controls. The alert effect amplitude was comparable in both groups at the longer SOAs (450 ms and 800 ms) while, at the shortest SOA (100 ms), it was greater in controls than in the BECTS group. In the first version of the spatial cueing task (peripheral cues and no probability information), the validity effect amplitude, measured by longer response times (RTs) in invalid trials compared to valid trials, was comparable in both groups. In the second version (central cues and a 75% probability that the target would appear at the cued location), the validity effect was larger in the BECTS group compared to controls because of a higher cost of invalid trials compared to neutral trials. These results suggest the existence of impairments in the endogenous orienting of attention in children with BECTS, in particular an attention disengagement deficit, while exogenous orienting of attention appears to be preserved.
Epidural analgesia is a common procedure during labour. Neurological complications during pregnancy and labour in particular can indicate serious underlying pathology that may require urgent intervention to prevent permanent damage. The development of Horner's syndrome may, for instance indicate a variety of acute neurological conditions including carotid dissection. We describe a patient who developed Horner's syndrome during epidural anaesthesia. We discuss possible causes and emphasize that this may have a benign aetiology and following a careful clinical evaluation, may not require any investigation.
Flattening the diurnal corticosterone rhythm prevented the stimulating action of L-NAME (a nitric oxide synthase, NOS, inhibitor) on progenitor cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus in Lister-Hooded adult male rats. The increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and trkB mRNA in the dentate gyrus which otherwise occurred after L-NAME was also prevented by clamping the corticoid rhythm in adrenalectomized rats, but was restored by daily additional injections of corticosterone (which replicates the diurnal rhythm). Unilateral infusions of BDNF into the lateral ventricle increased proliferation in the dentate gyrus on the side of the infusion, but this was not observed following implantation of subcutaneous corticosterone, which flattened the diurnal corticosterone rhythm. 5HT1A mRNA in the dentate gyrus was increased on both sides of the brain by unilateral BDNF infusions, but this was also prevented by subcutaneous corticosterone pellets. These results show that the diurnal rhythm of corticosterone regulates the stimulating action of NOS inhibitors on BDNF as well as on neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, and that BDNF becomes ineffective on both proliferation rates and 5HT1A expression in the absence of a rhythm in corticosterone. This, together with our previous findings, suggests that corticoid rhythms permit both serotonin and NO access to BDNF, and the latter to regulate progenitor cell activity.
The hippocampus is involved in learning and memory. Previously, we have shown that the acquisition of the behavioural immobility response after a forced swim experience is associated with chromatin modifications and transcriptional induction in dentate gyrus granule neurons. Given that both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK) 1/2 signalling pathway are involved in neuroplasticity processes underlying learning and memory, we investigated in rats and mice whether these signalling pathways regulate chromatin modifications and transcriptional events participating in the acquisition of the immobility response. We found that: (i) forced swimming evoked a transient increase in the number of phospho-acetylated histone H3-positive [P(Ser10)-Ac(Lys14)-H3(+)] neurons specifically in the middle and superficial aspects of the dentate gyrus granule cell layer; (ii) antagonism of NMDA receptors and inhibition of ERK1/2 signalling blocked forced swimming-induced histone H3 phospho-acetylation and the acquisition of the behavioural immobility response; (iii) double knockout (DKO) of the histone H3 kinase mitogen- and stress-activated kinases (MSK) 1/2 in mice completely abolished the forced swimming-induced increases in histone H3 phospho-acetylation and c-Fos induction in dentate granule neurons and the behavioural immobility response; (iv) blocking mineralocorticoid receptors, known not to be involved in behavioural immobility in the forced swim test, did not affect forced swimming-evoked histone H3 phospho-acetylation in dentate neurons; and (v) the pharmacological manipulations and gene deletions did not affect behaviour in the initial forced swim test. We conclude that the forced swimming-induced behavioural immobility response requires histone H3 phospho-acetylation and c-Fos induction in distinct dentate granule neurons through recruitment of the NMDA/ERK/MSK 1/2 pathway.
We examined the changes in nucleus accumbens (NAcc) dopamine (DA) transmission associated with non-contingent meal presentations under conditions of high (fixed time-, FT-schedule) and low (variable time-, VT-schedule) predictability. Of interest were the changes in NAcc DA transmission associated with discrepancies between the time food is expected and when it is actually presented. We used in vivo voltammetry to monitor NAcc DA levels as rats received, on the first and second test days, 30-s meals of condensed milk on a VT-52 schedule (inter-meal intervals of 32, 35, 40, 45, 52, 64, and 95 s). On the third and subsequent days meals were presented first on a VT-52 s schedule and then on an FT-52 s schedule. On day 1, monotonic increases in NAcc DA signals were observed during both meal consumption and the intervals between VT meal presentations. By day 2, however, meal presentations on the VT schedule elicited biphasic DA signal fluctuations; DA signals increased prior to each meal presentation but then started to decline during the feeding bout that followed. Fixed-time meal presentations on day 3 disrupted this pattern, resulting in a concurrent escalation of DA signal fluctuations upon subsequent VT meal presentations. These findings provide further evidence that, in trained animals, NAcc DA transmission is activated by conditioned incentive cues rather than by primary rewards. They also suggest that the increases in NAcc DA transmission associated with reward expectancy are sensitive to temporal cues (e.g. interval timing) and to discrepancies between expected and actual outcomes.
Retinoids influence cellular processes such as differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis via retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and retinoid X receptor (RXR), and have therapeutic applications in several cancers and dermatologic diseases. Recent reports indicate that depression occasionally occurs in patients using the acne drug Accutane, the active component of which is 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cis-RA). Although impairment of serotonin (5-HT)-expressing neurons, including morphologic changes, is thought to be associated with depressive symptoms, the effects of 13-cis-RA on 5-HT neurons have not been examined. The present study demonstrated that 13-cis-RA alters the morphology of 5-HT neurons in cultured rat midbrain slices. The 13-cis-RA-induced changes were partially blocked by RXR and RAR antagonists. Furthermore, cotreatment with RAR and RXR agonists altered the morphology of 5-HT neurons to a greater extent than the individual application of each agonist. The morphologic changes were completely blocked by RXR antagonist, whereas RAR antagonist partially blocked the effects. These results suggest that 13-cis-RA exerts its action on slice-cultured 5-HT neurons, at least in part, through specific retinoid receptors. Moreover, RXR has a greater influence on the morphology of 5-HT neurons than RAR. The receptor-mediated actions of 13-cis-RA presented here may provide a clue for further research on depression associated with the use of 13-cis-RA.
At its core, the polyvagal theory proposes that peptides affect simple social behaviors through influences on hindbrain autonomic processes. To test this mechanism, we compared the effects of fore- and hindbrain infusions of vasotocin (VT) on social approach behavior in goldfish. VT infusions into the 4th ventricle, which ink infusions verified did not move rostrally to the forebrain, inhibited social approach at a lower dose than did infusions into the 3rd ventricle, which did diffuse to the hindbrain. Thus, VT actions in the hindbrain appear to modulate this simple social behavior. We then identified a population of substance P (SP)-immunoreactive cells in the hindbrain that are encapsulated by putative VT terminals, and determined that those cells project to the periphery. Injecting SP peripherally, as with infusing VT centrally, inhibited social approach, and peripheral injections of an SP antagonist, but not central infusions, abolished the behavioral effects of central VT infusions. We therefore propose that VT inhibits social approach by activating SP cells in the hindbrain, which then induce changes in body state that feed back to the brain. Central VT infusions did not inhibit feeding, suggesting that this VT mechanism selectively affects appetitive social responses. Because VT projections to the hindbrain are highly conserved in vertebrates, influences on peripheral feedback processes like the one we have described in goldfish may reflect how VT affected simple social behaviors in ancestral vertebrates and thus preadapted members of this peptide family to play increasingly complex roles in social and emotional regulation in modern animals.
A consistent finding in patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease is a loss of the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain that project to the hippocampus. However, the role this depletion plays in the development of Alzheimer's disease remains unclear. The loss of this ascending neurotransmitter system could potentially render hippocampal neurons more susceptible to further insult, such as chronic stress, ultimately resulting in neuronal death and memory loss. We explored this possibility by using the highly specific toxin 192 IgG-Saporin to destroy the majority of cholinergic activity in the septo-hippocampal pathway in rats. Following depletion, rats were subjected to 2 weeks of restraint stress. Rats were divided into two groups and were tested either on a hippocampal-dependent (water maze) task or a hippocampal-independent task (fear conditioning to tone and context). We showed that cholinergic depletion or stress alone had no effect on the successful performance of either of the tasks. However, rats with a combination of cholinergic depletion and stress were significantly impaired on the water-maze task. No deficits were apparent in the combined group that was tested on fear conditioning to tone or context, suggesting that this impairment is specific to spatial working memory. These rats had no obvious hippocampal neuronal loss or damage; however, there were likely subtle changes in hippocampal processing that led to the observed deficit on the hippocampal-dependent task. These findings support our theory that cholinergic depletion of the medial septum increases hippocampal vulnerability to further insults such as stress.
In the present study, we established and characterized an animal model of vulnerability to repeated stress. We found that control Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats showed a gradual decrease in the HPA axis response following 14 days of repeated restraint stress, whereas Fischer 344 (F344) rats did not show such HPA axis habituation. Similar habituation was observed in the expression of c-fos mRNA, corticotropin-releasing hormone hnRNA, and phospho-CREB and phospho-ERK proteins in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of SD rats, but not in the F344 rats. In addition, repeatedly restrained F344 rats exhibited decreased cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and increased anxiety-related behaviours, while repeatedly restrained SD rats exhibited a selective enhancement of hippocampal cell proliferation in the ventral area. Moreover, we found a lower expression of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) protein, but not mRNA, in the PVN of F344 rats compared to SD rats. We also identified that microRNA (miR)-18a inhibited translation of GR mRNA in cultured neuronal cells and that increased expression of miR-18a in the PVN was observed in F344 rats compared with SD rats. These strain differences in GR protein levels were not found in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, and the expression of miR-18a was much lower in these brain regions than in the PVN. Our results suggest that F344 rats could be a useful animal model for studying vulnerability to repeated stress, and that miR-18a-mediated down-regulation of GR translation may be an important factor to be considered in susceptibility to stress-related disorders.
Functional imaging studies in recent years have confirmed the involvement of orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in human reward processing and have suggested that OFC responses are context-dependent. A seminal electrophysiological experiment in primates taught animals to associate abstract visual stimuli with differently valuable food rewards. Subsequently, pairs of these learned abstract stimuli were presented and firing of OFC neurons to the medium-value stimulus was measured. OFC firing was shown to depend on the relative value context. In this study, we developed a human analogue of this paradigm and scanned subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging. The analysis compared neuronal responses to two superficially identical events, which differed only in terms of the preceding context. Medial OFC response to the same perceptual stimulus was greater when the stimulus predicted the more valuable of two rewards than when it predicted the less valuable. Additional responses were observed in other components of reward circuitry, the amygdala and ventral striatum. The central finding is consistent with the primate results and suggests that OFC neurons code relative rather than absolute reward value. Amygdala and striatal involvement in coding reward value is also consistent with recent functional imaging data. By using a simpler and less confounded paradigm than many functional imaging studies, we are able to demonstrate that relative financial reward value per se is coded in distinct subregions of an extended reward and decision-making network.
Brain imaging techniques rely on changes in blood flow, volume and oxygenation to infer the loci and magnitude of changes in activity. Although progress has been made in understanding the link between stimulus-evoked neural activity and haemodynamics, the extent to which neurovascular-coupling relationships remain constant during different states of baseline cortical activity is poorly understood. Optical imaging spectroscopy, laser Doppler flowmetry and electrophysiology were used to measure haemodynamics and neural activity in the barrel cortex of anaesthetized rats. The responses to stimulation of the whisker pad were recorded during quiescence and cortical desynchronization produced by stimulation of the brainstem. Cortical desynchronization was accompanied by increases in baseline blood flow, volume and oxygenation. Haemodynamic responses to low-frequency whisker stimuli (1 Hz) were attenuated during arousal compared with that observed during quiescence. During arousal it was possible to increase stimulus-evoked haemodynamics by increasing the frequency of the stimulus. Neural responses to low-frequency stimuli were also attenuated but to a far lesser extent than the reduction in the accompanying haemodynamics. In contrast, neuronal activity evoked by high-frequency stimuli (40 Hz) was enhanced during arousal, but induced haemodynamic responses of a similar magnitude compared with that observed for the same high-frequency stimulus presented during quiescence. These data suggest that there may be differences in stimulus-evoked neural activity and accompanying haemodynamics during different information-processing states.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a critical role in the development of the central and peripheral nervous systems, and also in neuronal survival after injury. The actions of BDNF are mediated by its high-affinity receptors TrkB and p75NTR. Recent studies have shown that proneurotrophins bind p75NTR and sortilin with high affinity, and trigger apoptosis of neurons in vitro. As proneurotrophins are a dominant form of gene products in developing and adult animals, it is imperative to understand their physiological functions in animals. Here, we showed differential roles of proBDNF in injured and uninjured sensory neurons. proBDNF, p75NTR and sortilin are highly expressed in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. Recombinant proBDNF induced a dose-dependent death of PC12 cells and the death activity was completely abolished in the presence of antibodies against the prodomain of BDNF. The exogenous proBDNF enhanced the death of axotomized sensory neurons and the neutralizing antibodies to the prodomain or exogenous sortilin-extracellular domain-Fc fusion molecule reduced the death of axotomized sensory neurons. Interestingly, the treatment of neutralizing antibody in vivo increased the number of sensory neurons in the contralateral DRG. We conclude that proBDNF may induce the death of axotomized sensory neurons and suppress neuronal addition in the intact DRG in neonatal rats, and the suppression of endogenous proBDNF may protect neurons after neurotrauma.
The aim of the present pilot study was to investigate in a single-blind manner, over a period of 8 weeks, the comparative efficacy and tolerability of risperidone versus olanzapine addition in the treatment of OCD patients who did not show a &gt;or=35% decrease in the YBOCS score after 16-week SRI treatment (defined as resistant). The study consisted of two different phases: a 16-week open-label prospective phase to ascertain resistance to SRI treatment and an 8-week single-blind addition phase for resistant subjects only. Ninety-six subjects with DSM-IV OCD (YBOCS&gt;or=16) entered the open-label prospective phase; at the end of the 16-week period, 50 (52%) were judged to be resistant and were randomized to receive risperidone (1 to 3 mg/d) or olanzapine (2.5 to 10 mg/d) addition for 8 weeks. Overall, patients in both groups responded significantly, without differences between the two treatment groups; although no differences emerged for the proportion of patients reporting at least an adverse event, the profiles of adverse experiences differed significantly, being risperidone associated with amenorrhoea and olanzapine with weight gain.
Dietary induced acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) is used to reduce central serotonergic function and to investigate the role of serotonin (5-HT) in psychiatric illness. In healthy volunteers ATD produces working memory deficits and decreases mood in some studies. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a role in both cognition and in the regulation of mood; however, the possible contribution of central BDNF changes to the effects of ATD has not been examined. Therefore, using a rat model we have examined the effect of amino acid mixture-induced ATD on plasma and central BDNF protein levels. ATD significantly reduced free-plasma TRP by 79% and central hippocampal 5-HT by 35% when compared to controls. However, plasma or central BDNF protein levels in the hippocampus and midbrain were not significantly altered by ATD. These results suggest that changes in central BDNF do not contribute to the cognitive or mood effects of ATD.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a severe demyelinating disease of the central nervous system due to JC polyoma virus infection of oligodendrocytes. PML develops in patients with impaired T-cell function as occurs in HIV, malignancy or immunosuppressive drugs users. Until now no imaging methods have been reported to correlate with clinical status. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is a robust MRI tool in investigating white matter architecture and diseases. The aim of our work was to assess diffusion abnormalities in focal white matter lesions in patients with PML and to correlate the lesion load measured with conventional MRI and DWI to clinical variables. We evaluated eight patients with a biopsy or laboratory-supported diagnosis of PML. All patients underwent MRI including conventional sequences (fluid attenuated inversion recovery-FLAIR) and DWI. Mean diffusivity (MD) maps were used to quantify diffusion on white matter lesions. Global lesion load was calculated by manually tracing lesions on FLAIR images, while total, central core and peripheral lesion loads were calculated by manually tracing lesions on DWI images. Lesion load obtained with the conventional or DWI-based methods were correlated with clinical variables such as disease duration, disease severity and survival. White matter focal lesions are characterized by a central core with low signal on DWI images and high MD (1.853 x 10(-3) mm2/s), surrounded by a rim of high signal intensity on DWI and lower MD (1.1 x 10(-3) mm2/s). The MD value of normal-appearing white matter is higher although not statistically significant (0.783 x 10(-3) mm2/s) with respect to control subjects (0.750 x 10(-3) mm2/s). Inter-rater correlations of global lesion load between FLAIR (3.96%) and DWI (3.43%) was excellent (ICC=0.87). Global lesion load on FLAIR and DWI correlates with disease duration and severity (respectively, p=0.037, p=0.0272 with Karnofsky scale and p=0.0338 with EDSS on FLAIR images; p=0.043, p=0.0296 with Karnofsky scale and p=0.0365 with EDSS on DW images). Central core lesion load on DWI correlates with disease duration and severity (respectively p=0.043, p=0.0103 with Karnofsky scale and p=0.0112 with EDSS), while peripheral lesion load does not correlate with any clinical variable. The global lesion load in PML correlates with disease duration and severity. DWI images, which can distinguish within lesions a central core from a peripheral rim, reveal that a larger central core component correlates to a worsened clinical status and longer disease duration. On the other hand the peripheral rim lesion load visualized on DWI images does not correlate with clinical variables and does not achieve obtaining further prognostic information with respect to conventional imaging.
Using administrative data to evaluate health care outcomes has become increasingly common, but the reliability and validity of outcome measures based on cross-system data linkage have been little scrutinized. Applying a deterministic data matching methodology, we linked 6545 Californians admitted to 43 substance abuse treatment programs between 2000 and 2001 to administrative data acquired from three state agency databases. We compared self-reported treatment outcome measures to equivalent measures derived from official records on motor vehicle driving incidents, criminal history, and mental health services utilization. Administrative data provided analogous results in some measures (e.g., percent of people using mental health services, percent ever arrested) and more accurate results in others (e.g., frequency of service utilization, and frequency of arrests). Similar to findings based on the interview data, the administrative data also revealed improvements in several domains 1-year post-treatment compared to 1-year pre-treatment. Experiences with data linkage procedures and strategies for enhancing record linkage accuracy are discussed. Findings illustrate the value of using administrative records for substance abuse treatment outcome evaluation, while highlighting areas for improvement for future cross-system data linkage efforts.
Numerous physiological and emotionally motivated behaviors require concomitant activation of somatomotor and sympathetic efferents. Likewise, adaptive and maladaptive responses to stress are often characterized by simultaneous recruitment of these efferent systems. This review describes recent literature that outlines the organization of somatomotor-sympathetic circuitry in the rat. These circuits were delineated by employing recombinant pseudorabies (PRV) viral vectors as retrograde trans-synaptic tract tracers. In these studies PRV-152, a strain that expresses enhanced green fluorescent protein, was injected into sympathectomized hindlimb muscle, while PRV-BaBlu, which expresses beta-galactosidase, was injected into the adrenal gland in the same animals. Immunofluorescent methods were then used to determine the presence of putative dual-function neurons that were infected with both viral strains. These somatomotor-sympathetic neurons (SMSNs) were detected in a number of brain regions. However, the most prominent nodes in this circuitry included the paraventricular, dorsomedial, and lateral nuclei of the hypothalamus, ventrolateral periaqueductal grey and ventromedial medulla. Phenotypic studies revealed subsets of SMSNs to be capable of synthesizing serotonin, or to contain neuroactive peptides vasopressin, oxytocin, orexins, or melanin-concentrating hormone. Based on these data and the results of studies employing monosynaptic tracers a central somatomotor-sympathetic circuit is proposed. This circuitry is likely recruited in diverse situations, including stress responses, cold defense, exercise and sleep. Furthermore, activation of specific classes of SMSNs likely shapes distinct stress-coping strategies. Dysregulation in the organization and function of this circuit may also contribute to the expression of physical symptoms of affective disorders, such as major depression, anxiety and panic.
This series of experiments assessed the effects of neurotoxic damage to either the medial prefrontal cortex or the medial striatum on the acquisition of multiple-location place learning in the water task. During training, normal subjects learn to search for a new hidden platform location at the beginning of each training session and to continue to swim to that location until the end of training during that session. By the end of training, normal subjects show one-trail place learning in which they find the new location on the first trial and swim directly to that location on the second swim. Rats with damage to either the medial prefrontal cortex or dorso-medial striatum showed deficits in learning to swim to the new location each day. These deficits were interpreted as impairments in behavioural flexibility. The lesion-induced impairment was not caused by perseverative errors but was manifested in an inability to rapidly acquire a new spatial position in conflict with the previous position. Interestingly, the subjects from both lesion groups were able to show normal place learning and memory after repeated training within a session. The results were interpreted as suggestive of a complementary role of these neural structures in behavioural flexibility.
The study of saccadic latency-the reaction time between presenting a visual stimulus and initiating an eye movement to look at it--has led to a better understanding of decision mechanisms in general, through the development of quantitative models such as LATER. But outside the laboratory, evoked saccades of this kind are rare. Most saccades are made spontaneously while viewing static scenes. Can their initiation be explained by the same decision mechanism? We suggest that in a series of spontaneous saccades, each can be considered to be evoked by the new retinal image generated by its predecessor, so that the intersaccadic interval (ISI) can be regarded as equivalent to latency. We measured ISIs in subjects spontaneously viewing static scenes, and found their distributions to be qualitatively similar to those of evoked saccades, differing quantitatively in just two respects: (1) the main part of the distribution is slower; and (2) there is an increased number of very early responses. By using novel saccadic tasks we show that (1) can be accounted for by lateral inhibition between multiple, suddenly presented image elements, and (2) by the fact that the stimulus is necessarily extremely predictable. Adding these two factors to an evoked saccadic task produced latency distributions indistinguishable from those of spontaneous ones. This suggests that the mechanisms generating evoked and spontaneous movements may be less functionally distinct than is commonly assumed. Both clinically and scientifically, a common, unified framework for explaining both spontaneous and evoked movements is an exciting prospect.
Postural control was studied when the subject was kneeling with erect trunk in a quiet posture and compared to that obtained during quiet standing. The analysis was based on the center of pressure motion in the sagittal plane (CPx), both in the time and in the frequency domains. One could assume that postural control during kneeling would be poorer than in standing because it is a less natural posture. This could cause a higher CPx variability. The power spectral density (PSD) of the CPx obtained from the experimental data in the kneeling position (KN) showed a significant decrease at frequencies below 0.3 Hz compared to upright (UP) (P &lt; 0.01), which indicates less sway in KN. Conversely, there was an increase in fast postural oscillations (above 0.7 Hz) during KN compared to UP (P &lt; 0.05). The root mean square (RMS) of the CPx was higher for UP (P &lt; 0.01) while the mean velocity (MV) was higher during KN (P &lt; 0.05). Lack of vision had a significant effect on the PSD and the parameters estimated from the CPx in both positions. We also sought to verify whether the changes in the PSD of the CPx found between the UP and KN positions were exclusively due to biomechanical factors (e.g., lowered center of gravity), or also reflected changes in the neural processes involved in the control of balance. To reach this goal, besides the experimental approach, a simple feedback model (a PID neural system, with added neural noise and controlling an inverted pendulum) was used to simulate postural sway in both conditions (in KN the pendulum was shortened, the mass and the moment of inertia were decreased). A parameter optimization method was used to fit the CPx power spectrum given by the model to that obtained experimentally. The results indicated that the changed anthropometric parameters in KN would indeed cause a large decrease in the power spectrum at low frequencies. However, the model fitting also showed that there were considerable changes also in the neural subsystem when the subject went from standing to kneeling. There was a lowering of the proportional and derivative gains and an increase in the neural noise power. Additional increases in the neural noise power were found also when the subject closed his eyes.
Neurons in different cortical visual areas respond to different visual attributes with different latencies. How does this affect the on-line control of our actions? We studied hand movements directed toward targets that could be distinguished from other objects by luminance, size, orientation, color, shape or texture. In some trials, the target changed places with one of the other objects at the onset of the hand's movement. We determined the latency for correcting the movement of the hand in the direction of the new target location. We show that subjects can correct their movements at short latency for all attributes, but that responses for the attributes color, form and texture (that are relevant for recognizing the object) are 50 ms slower than for the attributes luminance, orientation and size. This dichotomy corresponds to both to the distinction between magno-cellular and parvo-cellular pathways and to a dorsal-ventral distinction. The latency also differed systematically between subjects, independent of their reaction time.
The present series of experiments was designed to examine, in the anesthetized cat, the extent to which the synaptic efficacy of knee joint afferents is modified during the state of central sensitization produced by the injection of capsaicin into the hindlimb plantar cushion. We found that the intradermic injection of capsaicin increased the N2 and N3 components of the focal potentials produced by stimulation of intermediate and high threshold myelinated fibers in the posterior articular nerve (PAN), respectively. This facilitation lasted several hours, had about the same time course as the paw inflammation and was more evident for the N2 and N3 potentials recorded within the intermediate zone in the L6 than in the L7 spinal segments. The capsaicin-induced facilitation of the N2 focal potentials, which are assumed to be generated by activation of fibers signaling joint position, suggests that nociception may affect the processing of proprioceptive and somato-sensory information and, probably also, movement. In addition, the increased effectiveness of these afferents could activate, besides neurons in the intermediate region, neurons located in the more superficial layers of the dorsal horn. As a consequence, normal joint movements could produce pain representing a secondary hyperalgesia. The capsaicin-induced increased efficacy of the PAN afferents producing the N3 focal potentials, together with the reduced post-activation depression that follows high frequency autogenetic stimulation of these afferents, could further contribute to the pain sensation from non-inflamed joints during skin inflammation in humans. The persistence, after capsaicin, of the inhibitory effects produced by stimulation of cutaneous nerves innervating non-inflamed skin regions may account for the reported reduction of the articular pain sensations produced by trans-cutaneous stimulation.
Bacterial infections during pregnancy often result in premature birth and neonatal white matter damage. During these infections, microglia, the resident immune cells of the CNS, undergo activation and contribute to further neuronal damage of the CNS. Minocycline, a second-generation tetracycline antibiotic, inhibits microglial activation and protects neurons in rodents but data about its effects on human cells are limited. We studied the mechanism of the neuroprotective effect of minocycline in either purified cell cultures or co-cultures of microglia and neurons from human fetal brain during inflammation induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In neuron/microglial co-cultures, minocycline treatment prevented activation and proliferation of microglia and protected neurons as demonstrated by decreased neuronal cell death and a shift of Bcl-2 family proteins toward anti-apoptotic ratio. Notably, neither minocycline nor LPS had an effect on neurons in purified neuronal cultures. The ability of minocycline to regulate activation of human fetal microglia might be relevant in therapies used towards treating neonatal CNS infections.
Rolipram, a specific inhibitor of the phosphodiesterase IV (PDE IV), has recently been shown to exert neuroprotective effects in an Alzheimer transgenic mouse model and in hypoxic-ischemic damage in the rat brain. It activates the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA)/cAMP regulatory element-binding protein (CREB) signaling pathway and it inhibits inflammation. We tested the neuroprotective effects of the specific PDE IV inhibitor rolipram in C57BL/6 mice treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). We found that rolipram administered at 1.25 mg/kg or 2.5 mg/kg doses significantly attenuated MPTP-induced dopamine depletion in the striatum, and reduced the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra. There was a bell-shaped dose effect with greater efficacy at the 1.25 mg/kg dose than 2.5 mg/kg and a higher dose of rolipram, 5 mg/kg, had no protective effect and even increased the mortality of animals when co-administered with MPTP. Rolipram did not interact with MPTP in its absorption into the brain and in its metabolism to 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)). Our data show a neuroprotective effect of the PDE IV specific inhibitor rolipram against dopaminergic neuron degeneration, suggesting that PDE IV inhibitors might be a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease.
Blockage of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) receptors during early embryogenesis in the mouse has been shown to result in developmental delays in neonates, and social behavior deficits selectively in adult male offspring. Offspring of VIP deficient mothers (VIP +/-) also exhibited developmental delays, and reductions in maternal affiliation and play behavior. In the current study, comparisons among the offspring of VIP deficient mothers (VIP +/-) mated to VIP +/- males with the offspring of wild type (WT) mothers mated to VIP +/- males allowed assessment of the contributions of both maternal and offspring VIP genotype to general health measures, social behavior, fear conditioning, and spatial learning and memory in the water maze. These comparisons revealed few differences in general health among offspring of WT and VIP deficient mothers, and all offspring exhibited normal responses in fear conditioning and in the acquisition phase of spatial discrimination in the water maze. WT mothers produced offspring that were normal in all tests; the reduced VIP in their VIP +/- offspring apparently did not contribute to any defects in the measures under study. However, regardless of their own VIP genotype, all male offspring of VIP deficient mothers exhibited severe deficits in social approach behavior and reversal learning. The deficits in these behaviors in the female offspring of VIP deficient mothers were less severe than in their male littermates, and the extent of their impairment was related to their own VIP genotype. This study has shown that intrauterine conditions had a greater influence on behavioral outcome than did genetic inheritance. In addition, the greater prevalence of deficits in social behavior and the resistance to change seen in reversal learning in the male offspring of VIP deficient mothers indicate a potential usefulness of the VIP knockout mouse in furthering the understanding of neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism.
We have studied whether electrical stimulation immediately after nerve injury may enhance axonal regeneration and modulate plastic changes at the spinal cord level underlying the appearance of hyperreflexia. Two groups of adult rats were subjected to sciatic nerve section followed by suture repair. One group (ES) received electrical stimulation (3 V, 0.1 ms at 20 Hz) for 1 h after injury. A second group served as control (C). Nerve conduction, H reflex, motor evoked potentials, and algesimetry tests were performed at 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9 weeks after surgery, to assess muscle reinnervation and changes in excitability of spinal cord circuitry. The electrophysiological results showed higher levels of reinnervation, and histological results a significantly higher number of regenerated myelinated fibers in the distal tibial nerve in group ES in comparison with group C. The monosynaptic H reflex was facilitated in the injured limb, to a higher degree in group C than in group ES. The amplitudes of motor evoked potentials were similar in both groups, although the MEP/M ratio was increased in group C compared to group ES, indicating mild central motor hyperexcitability. Immunohistochemical labeling of sensory afferents in the spinal cord dorsal horn showed prevention of the reduction in expression of substance P at one month postlesion in group ES. In conclusion, brief electrical stimulation applied after sciatic nerve injury promotes axonal regeneration over a long distance and reduces facilitation of spinal motor responses.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) has recently been introduced as a new therapeutic target for deep brain stimulation (DBS) in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (PD). In a recent case report it was demonstrated that alpha frequency oscillations appear in PPN after the administration of levodopa in PD, indicating a possible physiological role of these oscillations. Here we confirm this result and investigate the functional connectivity and reactivity of subcortical alpha activity by recording LFP activity from the PPN area and EEG in six patients with PD while at rest and in four of them while they performed ipsi- and contralateral self-paced joystick movements. Levodopa strongly promoted 7-11 Hz oscillatory synchronization in the region of PPN and coupling of this activity with similar activity in the cortical EEG. Such coupling was bidirectional. Moreover, the 7-11 Hz oscillatory synchronization in the PPN area increased about 3 s prior to self-paced movements, but only following levodopa treatment. These findings suggest that alpha oscillations in the PPN area may represent a physiological pattern of activity. The subcortical oscillations are coupled to cortical alpha activity and possibly allied to motor related attentional processes.

A number of studies have shown that phantom limb pain is associated with plastic changes along the neuraxis, with a close correlation between changes in the cortical representation of the affected limb and phantom limb pain. Mechanisms underlying these maladaptive plastic changes are related to a loss of GABAergic inhibition, glutamate-mediated long-term potentiation-like changes and structural alterations such as axonal sprouting. These plastic changes and phantom limb pain seem to be more extensive when chronic pain precedes the amputation. Behavioral interventions, stimulation, feedback and pharmacological interventions that are designed to reverse these maladaptive memory traces and enhance extinction may be beneficial for the treatment and prevention of phantom limb pain.
Recently, focus on early detection, diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been increasing. The rationale is that, as with any other serious illness, early intervention will lead to better outcomes for patients and families. Despite the intuitive appeal of this rationale, there is discussion and even debate regarding the issues surrounding early detection and treatment. This review begins with a futuristic case that is aimed at focusing this discussion/debate and then proceeds to consider each of the issues including: should AD screening be part of routine physical examinations? is the amyloid hypothesis correct?: implications for diagnosis and treatment? can neuroimaging studies be used to detect brain amyloid? can symptomatic medications be combined to facilitate cognition? can cognitive rehabilitation programs facilitate cognition? and can immunotherapy and other plaque-busting therapies modify the progression of AD?
Recently published research indicates that soluble oligomers of beta-amyloid (Abeta) may be the key neurotoxic species associated with the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and that the process of Abeta aggregation may drive this event. Furthermore, soluble oligomers of Abeta and tau accumulate in the lipid rafts of brains from AD patients through an as yet unknown mechanism. Using cell culture models we report a novel action of Abeta on neuronal plasma membranes where exogenously applied Abeta in the form of ADDLs can be trafficked on the neuronal membrane and accumulate in lipid rafts. ADDL-induced dynamic alterations in lipid raft protein composition were found to facilitate this movement. We show clear associations between Abeta accumulation and redistribution on the neuronal membrane and alterations in the protein composition of lipid rafts. In addition, our data from fyn(-/-) transgenic mice show that accumulation of Abeta on the neuronal surface was not sufficient to cause cell death but that fyn is required for both the redistribution of Abeta and subsequent cell death. These results identify fyn-dependent Abeta redistribution and accumulation in lipid rafts as being key to ADDL-induced cell death and defines a mechanism by which oligomers of Abeta and tau accumulate in lipid rafts.
Generally, the 3'-end of the duplex microRNA (miR) precursor (pre-miR) is known to be stable in vivo and serve as a mature form of miR. However, both the 3'-end (miR9) and 5'-end (miR9*) of a brain-specific miR9 have been shown to function biologically in brain development. In this study, real-time PCR analysis and in vitro/in vivo bioluminescent imaging demonstrated that the upstream region of a primary miR9-1 (pri-miR9-1) can be used to monitor the highly expressed pattern of endogenous pri-miR9-1 during neurogenesis, and that the Luciferase reporter gene can image the unequal expression patterns of miR9 and miR9* seen during the neuronal differentiation of P19 cells. This demonstrates that our bioimaging system can be used to study the participation of miRs in the regulation of neuronal differentiation.
Viral infection of the central nervous system (CNS) can result in a multitude of responses including pathology, persistence or immune clearance. Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is a powerful model system to explore these potential outcomes of CNS infection due to the diversity of responses that can be achieved after viral inoculation. Several factors including tropism, timing, dose and variant of LCMV in combination with the development or suppression of the corresponding immune response dictates whether lethal meningitis, chronic infection or clearance of LCMV in the CNS will occur. Importantly, the functionality and positioning of the LCMV-specific CD8+ T cell response are critical in directing the subsequent outcome of CNS LCMV infection. Although a basic understanding of LCMV and immune interactions in the brain exists, the molecular machinery that shapes the balance between pathogenesis and clearance in the LCMV-infected CNS remains to be elucidated. This review covers the various outcomes of LCMV infection in the CNS and what is currently known about the impact of the virus itself versus the immune response in the development of disease or clearance.
The brain is the most complex and dynamically organized organ of the human body, with a high degree of computation capability enabling the execution of a wide spectrum of physiological processes and behaviors. In the past decades a large number of genomics studies have been undertaken to investigate brain function and brain disorders, but despite these efforts many of the underlying molecular mechanisms still remain largely unknown. The implementation of mass spectrometry based quantitative proteomics in recent years enabled to tap into condition-specific protein trafficking and protein interaction that are the key to organelle proteome (dys)function. The technology for neuroproteomics is still evolving; currently there are no standardized protocols. In this review we describe the most commonly used methods to prepare brain subcellular fractions suitable for proteomics analysis, and highlight the various approaches for quantitative neuroproteomics.
Gastropod molluscs provide important model systems for investigating the behavioral and neural basis of associative and non-associative learning. Habituation, sensitization, classical and operant conditioning are studied in motor reflex and central pattern generator circuits. Although synaptic plasticity has long been recognized as playing a key role in molluscan learning circuits, non-synaptic changes resulting in alterations in the excitability of neurons are increasingly recognized as an essential component of the memory trace.
A large number studies indicate that potassium (K+) channels play important roles in cellular signaling in both excitable and nonexcitable cells. Moreover, a considerable number of K+ channels within the nervous system appear to mediate diverse cellular signaling, including regulation of neurotransmitter release, neuronal excitability, and cell volume. Recent studies on the K+ channel gene expression in the basal ganglia reveal dysfunctions of various K+ channels (e.g., Kv, K(ATP), Kir2 and SKCa), which may be involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). This review aims to provide an overview of our current understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in K+ channel functions in the basal ganglia, and an insight on how to exploit K+ channels as therapeutic targets in the treatment of PD.
Attention is often regarded as a mechanism by which attended objects become perceptually more salient, akin to increasing their contrast. We demonstrate by means of human psychophysics that attention is better described as a mechanism that reduces contextual integration, thereby ensuring that task irrelevant information is prevented from influencing the processing of task relevant information. To investigate possible neuronal bases of this phenomenon we studied the effects of attention on spatial integration in V1 of the macaque monkey. In line with our psychophysical results, attention directed to parafoveal locations reduced spatial integration by reducing the summation area of V1 neurons. Additionally we measured length tuning in V1 in the presence and absence of externally applied acetylcholine in V1 of the marmoset monkey. The effects of acetylcholine application and attention were largely similar. Acetylcholine reduced spatial integration by reducing the neuron's summation area. These data demonstrate that attention can alter perceptual and neuronal spatial integration, and that acetylcholine might contribute to task dependent receptive field dynamics.
A large number studies indicate that potassium (K+) channels play important roles in cellular signaling in both excitable and nonexcitable cells. Moreover, a considerable number of K+ channels within the nervous system appear to mediate diverse cellular signaling, including regulation of neurotransmitter release, neuronal excitability, and cell volume. Recent studies on the K+ channel gene expression in the basal ganglia reveal dysfunctions of various K+ channels (e.g., Kv, K(ATP), Kir2 and SKCa), which may be involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). This review aims to provide an overview of our current understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in K+ channel functions in the basal ganglia, and an insight on how to exploit K+ channels as therapeutic targets in the treatment of PD.
Several antineoplastic drugs induce severe toxic damage of the peripheral nervous system and chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity (CIPN) can be dose limiting. Moreover, CIPN signs and symptoms can be permanent and severely impair the patients' quality of life even after drug withdrawal. Despite extensive investigation, the exact mechanisms of neurotoxic action at the basis of CIPN are not completely known and it is likely that they can be at least in part different from the mechanisms of antineoplastic action of the drugs. A possible instrument to investigate on this important issue is represented by the evaluation of the effect of compounds used to reduce the toxicity of antineoplastic drugs in pre-clinical and clinical settings. This review will be focused on the most clinically-relevant neurotoxic antineoplastic drugs and on the results obtained with several different classes of putative neuroprotectants.
We have identified downstream promoter sequence of the PS1 gene that may be regulated by novel transcription factors. 3' deletion from +178 to +165 had no effect on PS1 transcription. 3' deletion from +178 to +140 decreased promoter activity by 50%. Further 3' deletion from +178 to +114 decreased promoter activity by 80%. Therefore, a crucial element controlling over 80% of the promoter activity in SK-N-SH cell line is located between +114 and +165. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays suggested that zinc finger proteins Sp1 and ADR1 interacted with the PS1 promoter sequence (+114 to +140) and promoter region (+140 to +165) respectively. A three base pair substitution within the core sequence (GGCGGGGA to GGCGactA) of the ADR1 consensus in the element (+140 to +165) that abolished ADR1-DNA interaction, reduced PS1 transcription by 50%. The substitution mutation in the sequence (+114 to +140) that abolished Sp1-DNA interaction had no effect on PS1 expression. These data suggest that a novel mammalian trans-activator protein ADR1 binds to the downstream element (+140 to +165) to activate PS1 transcription.
We have long promulgated the idea that microglial cells serve an entirely beneficial role in the central nervous system (CNS), not only as immunological sentinels to fend off potentially dangerous infections, but also as constitutively neuroprotective glia that help sustain neuronal function in the normal and especially in the injured CNS when microglia become activated. In recent years, we have reported on the presence of degenerating microglial cells, which are prominent in the brains of aged humans and humans with neurodegenerative diseases, and this has led us to propose a hypothesis stating that loss of microglia and microglial neuroprotective functions could, at least in part, account for aging-related neurodegeneration. In the current review, we sum up the many aspects that characterize microglial activation and compare them to those that characterize microglial senescence and degeneration. We also consider the possible role of oxidative stress as a cause of microglial degeneration. We finish up by discussing the role microglial cells play in terms of amyloid clearance and degradation with the underlying idea that removal of amyloid constitutes a microglial neuroprotective function, which may become compromised during aging.
Substantial pieces of direct and indirect evidence have mounted over the years linking the induction of oxidative stress to a plethora of disease conditions, not least those associated with the death of neurons. The causal relationship between oxidative damage and neurodegeneration is, however, not yet clear and still a subject of intense investigation. Nevertheless, the phenomenon of oxidative neuronal death has received considerable attention in a frantic search for efficacious therapies for the management of neurological and neurodegenerative conditions. The redox-active nature of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which in their excessive levels induce oxidative stress, the prevalence of ROS production in biological systems, the complexity of interrelationships among these species, and the context-dependent adequacy and resilience of the antioxidant defense systems are some of the challenges that basic research has to grapple with to advance successfully to the translational stage. Much still has to be understood for research efforts in this field to yield enduring therapies. In this review, we examine the nature (chemistry) of ROS, the relationships between them, their physiological functions, the roles of oxidative stress in neurodegeneration, the mechanisms of cell death induced by oxidant species, and the available means of protecting neurons against oxidative damage.


In order to reproduce successfully, animals must integrate multiple environmental cues to synchronize breeding with favorable conditions. In temperate, seasonally breeding rodents, photoperiod acts as the primary seasonal cue. Long days are associated with reproductive development and maturation of the gonads whereas short days induce gonadal regression. The neuropeptide kisspeptin has potent stimulatory effects on reproductive development. Kisspeptin potently stimulates GnRH release and kisspeptin expression co-varies with photoperiod in seasonally breeding animals. Here we tested the hypothesis that reproductive involution in response to inhibitory day lengths results from reduced kisspeptin stimulation of the reproductive axis in seasonally breeding Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). If true, gonadal regrowth should be hastened by kisspeptin treatment in regressed hamsters and prevented in hamsters by treatment prior to and during regression. In Experiments 1 and 2 we tested the ability of kisspeptin to reverse gonadal regression. In Experiment 1, reproductively regressed hamsters received chronic kisspeptin via osmotic mini-pumps for 4 weeks. In Experiment 2, daily injections of kisspeptin were administered to regressed hamsters for 6 weeks. In Experiment 3, the ability of kisspeptin to block gonadal regression was tested; hamsters transferred to short days received daily injections of kisspeptin for 6 weeks. In all three studies, short-day animals receiving exogenous kisspeptin did not differ from short-day controls. Collectively, these results provide evidence that mechanisms in addition to those that converge on the kisspeptin system are likely critical for seasonal changes in the reproductive axis.
The yeast TEL1 and MEC1 genes (homologous to the mammalian ATM and ATR genes, respectively) serve partially redundant roles in the detection of DNA damage and in the regulation of telomere length. Haploid yeast tel1 mec1 strains were subcultured nonselectively for approximately 200 cell divisions. The subcultured strains had very high rates of chromosome aberrations: duplications, deletions, and translocations. The breakpoints of the rearranged chromosomes were within retrotransposons (Ty or delta-repeats), and these chromosome aberrations nonrandomly involved chromosome III. In addition, we showed that strains with the hypomorphic mec1-21 allele often became disomic for chromosome VIII. This property of the mec1-21 strains is suppressed by a plasmid containing the DNA2 gene (located on chromosome VIII) that encodes an essential nuclease/helicase involved in DNA replication and DNA repair.
Astrocyte dysfunction and death accompany cerebral ischemia/reperfusion and possibly compromise neuronal survival. Animal studies indicate that neuronal death, neurologic injury, and oxidative molecular modifications are worse in animals exposed to hyperoxic compared to normoxic ventilation during reperfusion after global cerebral ischemia. It is unknown, however, whether ambient O2 affects brain cell survival using in vitro ischemia paradigms where mechanisms of injury to specific cell types can be more thoroughly investigated. This study tested the hypothesis that compared with the supraphysiological level of 20% O2 normally used in cell culture, lower, more physiological O2 levels protect astrocytes from death following oxygen and glucose deprivation. Primary rat cortical astrocytes were cultured under either 7 or 20% O2, exposed to O2, and glucose deprivation for 4 h, and then exposed to normal medium under either 7 or 20% O2. Cell death and 3-nitrotyrosine and 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine immunoreactivities were assessed at different periods of reoxygenation. Astrocytes exposed to low levels of O2 during reoxygenation undergo less death and exhibit lower levels of protein nitration and nucleic acid oxidation when compared with those under high levels of O2 during reoxygenation. These results support the hypothesis that the 20% O2 normally used in cell culture exacerbates astrocyte death and oxidative stress in an in vitro ischemia/reperfusion model compared to levels that more closely approximate those that exist in vivo.
Adult progenitor cell proliferation in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus is a dynamic process that is modulated by an array of physiological process, including locomotor activity and novel environmental stimuli. In addition, pathophysiological events, such as ischemia and status epilepticus (SE), have been shown to stimulate neurogenesis. Currently, limited information is available regarding the extracellular stimuli, receptors, and downstream intracellular effectors that couple excitotoxic stimulation to progenitor cell proliferation. Here we show that pilocarpine-induced SE triggers a set of signaling events that impinge upon the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway to drive progenitor cell proliferation in the SGZ at 2-days post-SE. Increased proliferation was dependent on insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), which was localized to activated microglia near the SGZ. Using a combination of techniques, we show that IGF-1 is a CREB-regulated gene and that SE triggered CRE-dependent transcription in microglia at 2-days post-SE. Together, these data identify a potential signaling program that couples SE to progenitor cell proliferation. SE triggers CREB-dependent transcription in reactive microglia. As a CREB-target gene, IGF-1 expression is upregulated, and by 2-days post-SE, IGF-1 triggers MAPK pathway activation in progenitor cells and, in turn, an increase in progenitor cell proliferation.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) plays an important role in the induction and maintenance of neuropathic pain. Transforming growth factor-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), a member of the MAPK kinase kinase family, is indispensable for the activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 MAPK. We now show that TAK1 induced in spinal cord astrocytes is crucial for mechanical hypersensitivity after peripheral nerve injury. Nerve injury induced a striking increase in the expression of TAK1 in the ipsilateral dorsal horn, and TAK1 was increased in hyperactive astrocytes, but not in neurons or microglia. Intrathecal administration of TAK1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS-ODN) prevented and reversed nerve injury-induced mechanical, but not heat hypersensitivity. Furthermore, TAK1 AS-ODN suppressed the activation of JNK1, but not p38 MAPK, in spinal astrocytes. In contrast, there was no change in TAK1 expression in primary sensory neurons, and TAK1 AS-ODN did not attenuate the induction of transient receptor potential ion channel TRPV1 in sensory neurons. Taken together, these results demonstrate that TAK1 upregulation in spinal astrocytes has a substantial role in the development and maintenance of mechanical hypersensitivity through the JNK1 pathway. Thus, preventing the TAK1/JNK1 signaling cascade in astrocytes might provide a fruitful strategy for treating intractable neuropathic pain.
We have examined the interaction between olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs), Schwann cells (SC), oligodendrocytes, and CNS axons using cultures generated from embryonic rat spinal cord. Oligodendrocyte process extension and myelination in these cultures was poor if the cells were plated on OECs or SCs. Myelin internodes and nodes of Ranvier formed frequently if these cultures were plated onto monolayers of neurosphere-derived astrocytes (NsAs). In the myelinated fibers generated on NsAs, Nav channels, caspr, and neurofascin molecules were correctly assembled at the nodes of Ranvier. The density of neurites, survival, and antigenic differentiation of oligodendrocytes was similar on OEC and NsAs monolayers. However, on OEC monolayers, despite a transient increase in the number of endogenous oligodendrocytes, there was a decrease in oligodendrocyte process extension and axonal ensheathment when compared with cultures plated on NsAs monolayers. To determine if these changes were due to axonal or glial factors, spinal cord oligodendrocytes were plated onto monolayers of OECs, NsAs, and poly-L-lysine in the absence of neurons. In these cultures, process extension and myelin-like membrane formation by oligodendrocytes was improved on monolayers of OEC. This suggests that inhibition of process extension is mediated via cross-talk between OECs and neurites. In cultures containing axons plated on OEC monolayers, oligodendrocyte process formation, axonal ensheathment, and myelination occurred albeit lower if the cultures were supplemented with NsAs conditioned medium. These data suggest OECs can permit neurite extension and oligodendrocyte proliferation, but lack secreted factor(s) and possible cell-cell contact that is necessary for oligodendrocyte process extension and myelination.

Advances in neurobiology have demonstrated that the brain is so sensitive to external experiences that it can be rewired through exposure to cultural influences. Experiments have shown that in some people, parts of the brain light up only when they are presented with an image of Bill Clinton. In others, it's Jennifer Aniston. Or Halle Berry. What other stimuli could rewire the brain? Is there a Boeing brain? A Goldman Sachs brain? No one really knows yet, says Medina, a developmental molecular biologist, who has spent much of his career exploring the mysteries of neuroscience with laypeople. As tempting as it is to try to translate the growing advances to the workplace, he warns, it's just too early to tell how the revolution in neurobiology is going to affect the way executives run their organizations. &quot;If we understood how the brain knew how to pick up a glass of water and drink it, that would represent a major achievement,&quot; he says. Still, neuroscientists are learning much that can be put to practical use. For instance, exercise is good for the brain, and long-term stress is harmful, inevitably hurting productivity in the workplace. Stressed people don't do math very well, they don't process language very efficiently, and their ability to remember--in both the short and long terms--declines. In fact, the brain wasn't built to remember with anything like analytic precision and shouldn't be counted on to do so. True memory is a very rare thing on this planet, Medina says. That's because the brain isn't really interested in reality; it's interested in survival. What's more, and contrary to what many twentieth-century educators believed, the brain can keep learning at any age. &quot;We are lifelong learners,&quot; Medina says. That's very good news indeed.&quot;
We report on 2 patients who have a mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and recurrent cerebral insults that resemble strokes (MELAS). These 2, and 9 other, reported patients share the following features: ragged red fibers evident on muscle biopsy, normal early development, short stature, seizures, and hemiparesis, hemianopia, or cortical blindness. Lactic acidemia is a common finding. We believe that MELAS represents a distinctive syndrome and that it can be differentiated from 2 other clinical disorders that also are associated with mitochondrial myopathy and cerebral disease: Kearns-Sayre syndrome and the myoclonus epilepsy ragged red fiber syndrome. Existing information suggests that MELAS is transmitted by maternal inheritance. The ragged red fibers suggest an abnormality of the electron transport system, but the precise biochemical disorders in these 3 clinical syndromes remain to be elucidated.
The study of migraine genetics promises to deliver significant changes to migraine therapy. Dr. Ferrari explores the emergence of the field and its importance to headache medicine.
Over the past 50 years, investigations into the pathophysiology of migraine have yielded discoveries that both illuminate the various components of the &quot;migraine process&quot; and lend promise to the identification of new therapies unheralded in their specificity and effectiveness.
As elsewhere in the world, migraine and other headache disorders have always produced very significant disability amongst Canadians. Over the last 50 years, progress has been made by health professionals to improve the care received by patients with headache, and to reduce the headache-related burden carried by patients and their families. Milestones in this progress have included programs for better education for the public, for neurologists, and for other physicians about migraine. Highlights in the Canadian battle against migraine and other headaches include those listed below.
Anatomical plasticity of projections from brainstem auditory structures to the inferior colliculus (IC) was examined in albino rats to determine the effects of unilateral destruction of the IC during early development. The IC in the right hemisphere was destroyed by aspiration on postnatal day 3. Upon reaching adulthood, the rats were examined by retrograde tract tracing methods with fluoro-gold (FG) and [3H]-glycine to determine patterns of brainstem projections to the undamaged left IC. In our FG experiments, the results confirmed the presence of aberrant crossed projections from the right medial superior olive (MSO) to the undamaged left IC. Following injections of [3H]-glycine or FG into the undamaged left IC, however, no other aberrant projections were found in the superior olive, including those from the ipsilateral lateral superior olive (LSO) or the superior paraolivary nucleus (SPN). These results suggest that projections from the MSO to the IC may have the latent ability to create aberrant crossed projections during development. On the other hand, the neurons in LSO and SPN do not form aberrant projections following early unilateral IC lesions.
Androgen receptors are expressed in many different neuronal populations in the central nervous system where they often act as transcription factors in the cell nucleus. However, recent studies have detected androgen receptor immunoreactivity in neuronal and glial processes of the adult rat neocortex, hippocampal formation, and amygdala as well as in the telencephalon of eastern fence and green anole lizards. This review discusses previously published findings on extranuclear androgen receptors, as well as new experimental results that begin to establish a possible functional role for androgen receptors in axons within cortical regions. Electron microscopic studies have revealed that androgen receptor immunoreactive processes in the rat brain correspond to axons, dendrites and glial processes. New results show that lesions of the dorsal CA1 region by local administration of ibotenic acid reduce the density of androgen receptor immunoreactive axons in the cerebral cortex and the amygdala, suggesting that these axons may originate in the hippocampus. Androgen receptor immunoreactivity in axons is also decreased by the intracerebroventricular administration of colchicine, suggesting that androgen receptor protein is transported from the perikaryon to the axons by fast axonal transport. Androgen receptors in axons located in the cerebral cortex and amygdala and originating in the hippocampus may play an important role in the rapid behavioral effects of androgens.
Reduced androgen levels in aged men and women might be risk factors for age-related cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Ongoing clinical trials are designed to evaluate the potential benefit of estrogen in women and of testosterone in men. In this review, we discuss the potential beneficial effects of androgens and androgen receptors (ARs) in males and females. In addition, we discuss the hypothesis that AR interacts with apolipoprotein (apoE)4, encoded by epsilon4 and a risk factor for age-related cognitive decline and AD, and the potential consequences of this interaction.
Many studies demonstrate that exposure to testicular steroids such as testosterone early in life masculinizes the developing brain, leading to permanent changes in behavior. Traditionally, masculinization of the rodent brain is believed to depend on estrogen receptors (ERs) and not androgen receptors (ARs). According to the aromatization hypothesis, circulating testosterone from the testes is converted locally in the brain by aromatase to estrogens, which then activate ERs to masculinize the brain. However, an emerging body of evidence indicates that the aromatization hypothesis cannot fully account for sex differences in brain morphology and behavior, and that androgens acting on ARs also play a role. The testicular feminization mutation (Tfm) in rodents, which produces a nonfunctional AR protein, provides an excellent model to probe the role of ARs in the development of brain and behavior. Tfm rodent models indicate that ARs are normally involved in the masculinization of many sexually dimorphic brain regions and a variety of behaviors, including sexual behaviors, stress response and cognitive processing. We review the role of ARs in the development of the brain and behavior, with an emphasis on what has been learned from Tfm rodents as well as from related mutations in humans causing complete androgen insensitivity.
It has been known since antiquity that gender-specific behaviors are regulated by the gonads. We now know that testosterone is required for the appropriate display of male patterns of behavior. Estrogen and progesterone, on the other hand, are essential for female typical responses. Research from several groups also indicates that estrogen signaling is required for male typical behaviors. This finding raises the issue of the relative contribution of these two hormonal systems in the control of male typical behavioral displays. In this review we discuss the findings that led to these conclusions and suggest various genetic strategies that may be required to understand the relative roles of testosterone and estrogen signaling in the control of gender-specific behavior.
Cell number in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) of rats was the first neural sex difference shown to differentiate under the control of androgens, acting via classical intracellular androgen receptors. SNB motoneurons reside in the lumbar spinal cord and innervate striated muscles involved in copulation, including the bulbocavernosus (BC) and levator ani (LA). SNB cells are much larger and more numerous in males than in females, and the BC/LA target muscles are reduced or absent in females. The relative simplicity of this neuromuscular system has allowed for considerable progress in pinpointing sites of hormone action, and identifying the cellular bases for androgenic effects. It is now clear that androgens act at virtually every level of the SNB system, in development and throughout adult life. In this review we focus on effects of androgens on developmental cell death of SNB motoneurons and BC/LA muscles; the establishment and maintenance of SNB motoneuron soma size and dendritic length; BC/LA muscle morphology and physiology; and behaviors controlled by the SNB system. We also describe new data on neurotherapeutic effects of androgens on SNB motoneurons after injury in adulthood.
The complexity of gonadal steroid hormone actions is reflected in their broad and diverse effects on a host of integrated systems including reproductive physiology, sexual behavior, stress responses, immune function, cognition, and neural protection. Understanding the specific contributions of androgens and estrogens in neurons that mediate these important biological processes is central to the study of neuroendocrinology. Of particular interest in recent years has been the biological role of androgen metabolites. The goal of this review is to highlight recent data delineating the specific brain targets for the dihydrotestosterone metabolite, 5alpha-androstane, 3beta,17beta-diol (3beta-Diol). Studies using both in vitro and in vivo approaches provide compelling evidence that 3beta-Diol is an important modulator of the stress response mediated by the hypothalmo-pituitary-adrenal axis. Furthermore, the actions of 3beta-Diol are mediated by estrogen receptors, and not androgen receptors, often through a canonical estrogen response element in the promoter of a given target gene. These novel findings compel us to re-evaluate the interpretation of past studies and the design of future experiments aimed at elucidating the specific effects of androgen receptor signaling pathways.
Neural activity in the motor cortex and its descending projections is modulated in a task-related manner. Several TMS studies have shown that when normal human subjects execute different manual tasks requiring similar contraction levels in first dorsal interroseous (FDI) there is a task-related modulation of the amplitude of FDI motor evoked potentials (MEPs). Not all studies of task-related changes show the same pattern of results, however. One reason for this might be methodological. Studies have assessed task-related changes by stimulating a single site, which can provide information about task-related changes in the excitability of the cortex at that site, but which is not sensitive to excitability changes throughout the muscle's cortical representation. We investigated how the execution of an individuated versus a nonindividuated isometric grasping task affected the excitability of FDI's entire cortical representation. We examined FDI MEP amplitudes while subjects grasped an object between their thumb and index finger, or when they grasped the same object between their thumb and all four fingers, keeping the background level of EMG in FDI constant for the two tasks. We found no overall task-related change in the excitability of FDI or its cortical topography, possibly due to behavioral differences of individual subjects. The stability of FDI's cortical representation during two different manual tasks expands the possibilities for studying cortical reorganization in the context of active muscle contraction, which will enable us to better understand whether changes in the motor system observed when muscles are at rest are also present during voluntary muscle recruitment.
The &quot;overlapping systems&quot; theory of language function argues that linguistic meaning construction crucially relies on contextual information provided by &quot;nonlinguistic&quot; cognitive systems, such as perception and memory. This study examines whether linguistic processing of spatial relations established by reading sentences call on the same posterior parietal neural system involved in processing spatial relations set up through visual input. Subjects read simple sentences, which presented two agents in relation to each other, and were subsequently asked to evaluate spatial (e.g., &quot;Was he turned towards her?&quot;) and equally concrete nonspatial content (e.g., &quot;Was he older than her?&quot;). We found that recall of the spatial content relative to the nonspatial content resulted in higher BOLD response in a dorsoposterior network of brain regions, most significantly in precuneus, strikingly overlapping a network previously shown to be involved in recall of spatial aspects of images depicting similar scenarios. This supports a neurocognitive model of language function, where sentences establish meaning by interacting with the perceptual and working memory networks of the brain.




Extensive alternative splicing and RNA editing have been documented for the transcript of DmNa(V) (formerly para), the sole sodium channel gene in Drosophila melanogaster. However, the functional consequences of these post-transcriptional modifications are not well understood. In this study we isolated 64 full-length DmNa(V) cDNA clones from D. melanogaster adults. Based on the usage of 11 alternative exons, 64 clones could be grouped into 29 splice types. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, 33 DmNa(V) variants generated sodium currents large enough for functional characterization. Among these variants, DmNa(V)5-1 and DmNa(V)7-1 channels activated at the most hyperpolarizing potentials, whereas DmNa(V)1-6 and DmNa(V)19 channels activated at the most depolarizing membrane potentials. We identified an A-to-I editing event in DmNa(V)5-1 that is responsible for its uniquely low-voltage-dependent activation. The wide range of voltage dependence of gating properties exhibited by DmNa(V) variants represents a rich resource for future studies to determine the role of DmNa(V) in regulating sodium channel gating, pharmacology, and neuronal excitability in insects.
Antipsychotic drugs are increasingly being prescribed for children and adolescents, and are used in pregnant women without a clear demonstration of safety in these populations. Global effects of these drugs on neurodevelopment (e.g., decreased brain size) have been reported in rats, but detailed knowledge about neuronal effects and mechanisms of action are lacking. Here we report on the evaluation of a comprehensive panel of antipsychotic drugs in a model organism (Caenorhabditis elegans) that is widely used to study neuronal development. Specifically, we examined the effects of the drugs on neuronal migration and axonal outgrowth in mechanosensory neurons visualized with green fluorescent protein expressed from the mec-3 promoter. Clozapine, fluphenazine, and haloperidol produced deficits in the development and migration of ALM neurons and axonal outgrowth in PLM neurons. The defects included failure of neuroblasts to migrate to the proper location, and excessive growth of axons past their normal termination point, together with abnormal morphological features of the processes. Although the antipsychotic drugs are potent antagonists of dopamine and serotonin receptors, the neurodevelopmental deficits were not rescued by co-incubation with serotonin or the dopaminergic agonist, quinpirole. Other antipsychotic drugs, risperidone, aripiprazole, quetiapine, trifluoperazine and olanzapine, also produced modest, but detectable, effects on neuronal development. This is the first report that antipsychotic drugs interfere with neuronal migration and axonal outgrowth in a developing nervous system.
This work is a review of a collaborative exercise on mtDNA analysis undertaken by the Italian working group (Ge.F.I.). A total of 593 samples from 11 forensic genetic laboratories were subjected to hypervariable region (HVS-I/HVS-II) sequence analysis. The raw lane data were sent to MtDNA Population Database (EMPOP) for an independent evaluation. For the inclusion of data for the Italian database, quality assurance procedures were applied to the control region profiles. Only eight laboratories with a final population sample of 395 subjects passed the quality conformance test. Control region haplogroup (hg) assignments were confirmed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) typing of the most common European hg-diagnostic sites. A total of 306 unique haplotypes derived from the combined analysis of control and coding region polymorphisms were found; the most common haplotype--CRS, 263, 309.1C, 315.1C/ not7025 AluI--was shared by 20 subjects. The majority of mtDNAs detected in the Italian population fell into the most common west Eurasian hgs: R0a (0.76%), HV (4.81%), H (38.99%), HV0 (3.55%), J (7.85%), T (13.42%), U (11.65%), K (10.13%), I (1.52%), X (2.78%), and W (1.01%).
Consolidation processes were studied in the rat by using functional inactivation techniques. Previous results showed that unilateral hippocampal inactivation alters consolidation. It is not clear if bilateral treatments increase the impairment. Wistar rats were trained in the Morris water maze during 4 consecutive days. Subjects received saline or tetrodotoxin in the dorsal hippocampus 1 min after training. Results showed that bilateral as well as unilateral treatments impair consolidation to the same degree, as shown by the mean latency to reach the platform. In both cases, the impairment is only visible in the first trial of the session following the blockade.
In the last decade we have seen an exponential growth of functional imaging studies investigating multiple aspects of language processing. These studies have sparked an interest in applying some of the paradigms to various clinically relevant questions, such as the identification of the cortical regions mediating language function in surgical candidates for refractory epilepsy. Here we present data from a group of adult control participants in order to investigate the potential of using frequency specific spectral power changes in MEG activation patterns to establish lateralisation of language function using expressive language tasks. In addition, we report on a paediatric patient whose language function was assessed before and after a left hemisphere amygdalo-hippocampectomy. Our verb generation task produced left hemisphere decreases in beta-band power accompanied by right hemisphere increases in low beta-band power in the majority of the control group, a previously unreported phenomenon. This pattern of spectral power was also found in the patient's post-surgery data, though not her pre-surgery data. Comparison of pre and post-operative results also provided some evidence of reorganisation in language related cortex both inter- and intra-hemispherically following surgery. The differences were not limited to changes in localisation of language specific cortex but also changes in the spectral and temporal profile of frontal brain regions during verb generation. While further investigation is required to establish concordance with invasive measures, our data suggest that the methods described may serve as a reliable lateralisation marker for clinical assessment. Furthermore, our findings highlight the potential utility of MEG for the investigation of cortical language functioning in both healthy development and pathology.
Recent development of near infrared light therapy (NILT) as an acute stroke treatment is promising. In various preclinical animal stroke models, NILT has been shown to be effective in improving long-term stroke outcome. More importantly, NILT has a long postischemic therapeutic window that has not been previously observed in other treatment modalities. The preliminary efficacy and safety of NILT in acute stroke patients were demonstrated in the recently published phase II NeuroThera Effectiveness and Safety Trial (NEST-1). If confirmed by the NEST-II trial, NILT will revolutionize acute stroke management as ut has a long time window (possible 24 hr) for therapy. Moreover, understanding the mechanisms of action of NILT will provide a new therapeutic target for future drug or device development.

A melodic pitch experiment was performed to demonstrate the importance of time-interval resolution for pitch strength. The experiments show that notes with a low fundamental (75 Hz) and relatively few resolved harmonics support better performance than comparable notes with a higher fundamental (300 Hz) and more resolved harmonics. Two four note melodies were presented to listeners and one note in the second melody was changed by one or two semitones. Listeners were required to identify the note that changed. There were three orthogonal stimulus dimensions: F0 (75 and 300 Hz); lowest frequency component (3, 7, 11, or 15); and number of harmonics (4 or 8). Performance decreased as the frequency of the lowest component increased for both F0's, but performance was better for the lower F0. The spectral and temporal information in the stimuli were compared using a time-domain model of auditory perception. It is argued that the distribution of time intervals in the auditory nerve can explain the decrease in performance as F0, and spectral resolution increase. Excitation patterns based on the same time-interval information do not contain sufficient resolution to explain listener's performance on the melody task.

Hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism are commonly present conditions in adults, leading to neurological symptoms, affecting the central and peripheral nervous system, and to neurocognitive impairment. Several studies investigated a possible association between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and thyroid dysfunctions. Increasing evidence supports an extensive interrelationship between thyroid hormones and the cholinergic system, which is selectively and early affected in AD. Moreover, thyroid hormones negatively regulate expression of the amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP), which plays a key role in the development of AD. A condition, the so called euthyroid sick syndrome (ESS), characterized by reduced serum T_{3} and T_{4} concentrations without increased serum thyroid stimulation hormone secretion, occurs within hours after major surgery. After surgery, elderly patients often exhibit a transient, reversible state of cognitive alterations. Delirium occurs in 10-26% of general medical patients over 65, and it is associated with a significant increase in morbidity and mortality. Modifications in thyroid hormone functioning may take place as a consequence of psycho-physical stress caused by surgery, and probably as a consequence of reduced conversion of T4 into T3 by the liver engaged in metabolizing anesthetic drugs. Therefore, modifications of thyroid hormones post-surgery, might play a role in the pathogenesis of postoperative cognitive dysfunction.
Microorganisms, bacteria and viruses may infect and cause a range of acute and chronic diseases in humans dependent on the genetic background, age, sex, immune and health status of the host, as well as on the nature, virulence and dose of infectious agent. Late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative illness of broad aetiology with a strong genetic component and a significant contribution of age, sex and life style factors. Both infectious diseases and AD are characterised by an increased production of an array of immune mediators, cytokines, chemokines and complement proteins by the host cells as well as by changes in the host lipid metabolism. In this review, we re-examine a dangerous liaison between several viral and bacterial infections and the most significant genetic factor for AD, APOE epsilon4, and the possible impact of this alliance on AD development. This connection was discussed in the broader context of lipid metabolism and in the light of different capacity of various infectious agents, their toxic lipophilic products and host lipoprotein particles for binding to cell receptor(s).

Research on visual perception in Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) tries to reveal the underlying mechanisms of aberrant local and global processing. Global motion perception is one way to study this aspect of ASD. We used plaid motion stimuli, which can be perceived as a coherently moving pattern, requiring feature integration, or as two transparent gratings sliding over each other. If global motion detection is impaired in ASD, this would lead to a decrease of the total time that a coherent pattern is perceived. However, in contrast to other studies in the literature, our results gave no evidence of impaired global motion perception in people with ASD. A reconciliation of the different outcomes is proposed based on spatial frequency processing in ASD.
Our previous studies show that activation of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) channels by a selective agonist, capsaicin (CAP), given unilaterally into the renal pelvis leads to increases in urine flow rate (Uflow) and urinary sodium excretion (UNa) bilaterally, although the mechanisms underlying enhanced renal excretory function are unknown. The present study was designed to determine the contribution of each of the renal segments to enhanced renal excretory function when TRPV1 expressed in sensory nerve fibers innervating the renal pelvis is activated. To accomplish the goal, LiCl was given intravenously to male Wistar rats while the left renal pelvis (LRP) was perfused with vehicle or CAP with or without a selective TRPV1 antagonist, capsazepine (CAPZ). Uflow and clearance of creatinine, lithium, sodium, and water, either filtered or fractionally, were determined in both kidneys. LRP perfusion of CAP at 2.4 nmol increased Uflow (microL.ming; ipsilaterally from 6.6 +/- 0.6 to 14.6 +/- 2.2 and contralaterally from 7.4 +/- 0.7 to 13.9 +/- 1.8, P &lt; 0.05) and UNa (micromol.ming; ipsilaterally from 0.6 +/- 0.2 to 1.8 +/- 0.3 and contralaterally from 0.7 +/- 0.2 to 1.9 +/- 0.4, P &lt; 0.05). Ipsilateral blockade of the TRPV1 with CAPZ at 24 nmol prevented CAP-induced increases in Uflow and UNa bilaterally. Creatinine, lithium, sodium, and free water clearance (ml.min) were increased in CAP (1.47 +/- 0.27, 0.44 +/- 0.05, 0.026 +/- 0.004, 0.41 +/- 0.05, respectively) compared to vehicle (0.72 +/- 0.12, 0.25 +/- 0.05, 0.010 +/- 0.001, 0.24 +/- 0.05), CAPZ+CAP (0.83 +/- 0.13, 0.24 +/- 0.03, 0.014 +/- 0.002, 0.23 +/- 0.03), and CAPZ (0.88 +/- 0.05, 0.21 +/- 0.01, 0.010 +/- 0.001, 0.20 +/- 0.01) groups (P &lt;or= 0.01). Filtered sodium load, distal delivery of sodium, and distal sodium reabsorption (muEq.min) were also increased in CAP (202.2 +/- 33.3, 61.3 +/- 7.4, 57.6 +/- 7.4, respectively) compared to vehicle (97.7 +/- 16.6, 33.6 +/- 5.8, 32.2 +/- 5.9), CAPZ+CAP (110.5 +/- 16.3, 32.5 +/- 4.5, 30.7 +/- 4.3), and CAPZ (118.0 +/- 4.5, 27.9 +/- 1.2, 26.8 +/- 1.2) groups (P &lt;or= 0.01). In contrast, fractional lithium and sodium excretion, absolute proximal reabsorption, fractional proximal reabsorption, fractional distal sodium, and water reabsorption were not different among groups. Therefore, activation of the TRPV1 expressed in primary afferent nerves innervating the renal pelvis leads to diuresis and natriuresis in both kidneys. The TRPV1-induced sodium and water excretion appears to be mediated by increases in glomerular filtration rate and distal tubular delivery of sodium but not by suppression of renal proximal and distal tubular reabsorption, suggesting a key role of segmental regulation of renal function by TRPV1-positive primary sensory nerves in the maintenance of sodium and water homeostasis.
The regulatory proteins of polyomaviruses, including small and large T antigens, play important roles, not only in the viral life cycle but also in virus-induced cell transformation. Unlike many other tumor viruses, the transforming proteins of polyomaviruses have no cellular homologs but rather exert their effects mostly by interacting with cellular proteins that control fundamental processes in the regulation of cell proliferation and the cell cycle. Thus, they have proven to be valuable tools to identify specific signaling pathways involved in tumor progression. Elucidation of these pathways using polyomavirus transforming proteins as tools is critically important in understanding fundamental regulatory mechanisms and hence to develop effective therapeutic strategies against cancer. In this short review, we will focus on the structural and functional features of one polyomavirus transforming protein, that is, the small t-antigen of the human neurotropic JC virus (JCV) and the simian virus, SV40.
Endocytosis and recycling of membrane proteins are key processes for nutrient uptake, receptor signaling and synaptic transmission. Different steps in these fission and fusion cycles have been proposed to be regulated by physiological changes in plasma membrane (PM) phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P(2)] concentration. Here, we use a chemical enzyme-translocation strategy to rapidly reduce PM PtdIns(4,5)P(2) levels while monitoring clathrin-mediated endocytosis and recycling. PtdIns(4,5)P(2) hydrolysis blocked transferrin receptor endocytosis and led to a marked increase in the concentration of transferrin receptors in the PM, suggesting that endocytosis is more sensitive to changes in PtdIns(4,5)P(2) than recycling. Reduction of PM PtdIns(4,5)P(2) levels led to a near complete dissociation of Adaptor protein 2 (AP-2) from the PM but had only a small effect on clathrin assembly. This argues that receptor-mediated PtdIns(4,5)P(2) reduction preferentially suppresses AP-2-mediated targeting of cargo to endocytic sites rather than the assembly of clathrin coats or recycling of endocytic vesicles.
Similar to most differentiated cells, both neurons and epithelial cells elaborate distinct plasma membrane domains that contain different membrane proteins. We have previously shown that the axonal cell-adhesion molecule L1/NgCAM accumulates on the axonal surface by an indirect transcytotic pathway via somatodendritic endosomes. MDCK epithelial cells similarly traffic NgCAM to the apical surface by transcytosis. In this study, we map the signals in NgCAM required for routing via the multi-step transcytotic pathway. We identify both a previously mapped tyrosine-based signal as a sufficient somatodendritic targeting signal, as well as a novel axonal targeting signal in the cytoplasmic tail of NgCAM. The axonal signal is glycine and serine rich, but only the glycine residues are required for activity. The somatodendritic signal is cis-dominant and needs to be inactivated in order for the axonal signal to be executed. Additionally, we show that the axonal cytoplasmic signal promotes apical targeting in MDCK cells. Transcytosis of NgCAM to the axon thus requires the sequential regulated execution of multiple targeting signals.
In the awake brain, the global metabolic rate of oxygen consumption is largely constant, while variations exist between regions dependent on the ongoing activity. This suggests that control mechanisms related to activity, that is, neuronal signaling, may redistribute metabolism in favor of active networks. This study examined the influence of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) tone on local increases in cerebellar metabolic rate of oxygen (CeMR(O(2))) evoked by stimulation of the excitatory, glutamatergic climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapse in rat cerebellum. In this network, the postsynaptic depolarization produced by synaptic excitation is preserved despite variations in GABAergic tone. Climbing fiber stimulation induced frequency-dependent increases in synaptic activity and CeMR(O(2)) under control conditions. Topical application of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol blocked the increase in CeMR(O(2)) evoked by synaptic excitation concomitant with attenuation of cerebellar blood flow (CeBF) responses. The effect was reversed by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, which also reversed the effect of muscimol on synaptic activity and CeBF. Climbing fiber stimulation during bicuculline application alone produced a delayed undershoot in CeBF concomitant with a prolonged rise in CeMR(O(2)). The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that activity-dependent rises in CeBF and CeMR(O(2)) are controlled by a common feed-forward pathway and provide evidence for modification of cerebral blood flow and CMR(O(2)) by GABA.
Stopping a clinical trial without reaching the final objective is not the ideal outcome any researcher wants; sometimes ceasing is inevitable. Due to marginal inclusion of patients we were forced to cease our randomized clinical trial on the effectiveness of proprioceptive training on the development of chronic whiplash complaints a year after the start. Although incidence figures demonstrate that recruitment of the planned number of whiplash patients would be easily feasible, we were unable to enroll the amount of subjects. Several motives can be proposed that would have prevented this obliged halting from happening. Other studies also report impracticability of the planned number of whiplash injury patients.

Gliomas are heterogeneous brain tumors and prognosis and treatment are dependent on the highest histological grade present. Stereotactic biopsy is associated with an inherent risk of sampling error. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) uses clinical MR scanners to provide chemical in addition to conventional information. MRS studies in brain tumors have found increased levels of choline-containing compounds (Cho) and decreased levels of N-acetylaspartate (NAA), creatine (Cr) and phosphocreatine (PCr) which are all associated with increased grade of glioma. We propose the use of MRS-guided stereotactic biopsy of astrocytomas to increase diagnostic yield and reduce the sampling error rate. MRS was performed on two patients undergoing stereotactic biopsy for suspected astrocytoma. Spectral peak heights of the metabolites Cho at 3.2 parts per million (ppm) chemical shift, NAA at 2.0 ppm and lipid (Lip) at 1.2 ppm, were measured. Biopsy targets were selected from the voxels with the highest Cho/NAA and normalised against Cho levels in the contralateral normal tissue, as well as those with highest lipid content. The biopsies were taken and tissue diagnosis was obtained via standard histological techniques. Histological grade was found to be different in one case: the region with a high Lip/Cr and Cho/NAA ratios showed glioblastoma, whereas the region with high Cho/NAA but low Lip/Cr ratios showed anaplastic astrocytoma. The second patient had high Cho/NAA ratio but low Lip/Cr ratio in both targets and the histology revealed anaplastic astrocytoma in both samples. MRS is a useful biomedical imaging tool for diagnosing and grading astrocytomas. Targeting regions with highest lipid content can potentially improve the diagnostic yield and minimize sampling error in stereotactic biopsy.
We aimed to analyze the clinical characteristics and surgical outcomes of surgically treated cystic acoustic neuromas, and to determine the prognostic significance of the presence of cystic components, by comparing surgical outcomes for solid and cystic tumors. A total of 58 patients (20.4%) with newly diagnosed cystic tumor were studied. The surgical outcome was analyzed in terms of extent of tumor removal, facial nerve preservation, morbidity and mortality; and was compared with that in patients with solid tumors. Facial nerve preservation rates were much better for solid tumors (82.7%) than for cystic tumors (67.9%). The extent of tumor removal was complete in 75.9% of patients with cystic tumors as compared with 90.2% for solid acoustic neuromas. Overall mortality was 8.6%. Cystic tumors differ from solid acoustic neuromas by having a rapid growth pattern, short clinical history and more frequent facial nerve involvement. They are associated with a poorer surgical outcome in terms of facial preservation and overall result.
Short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache with conjunctival injection and tearing (SUNCT) and short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with cranial autonomic symptoms (SUNA) are considered to be rare primary headache disorders. The purpose of this study was to define the clinical features, response to prophylactic treatment and efficacy of lignocaine by subcutaneous infusion for periods of acute exacerbation requiring hospitalisation. Over a period of 6 years (March 2000--February 2006) all cases of SUNCT and SUNA in neurology clinics at the Gold Coast Hospital, Australia, were reviewed. International Headache Society diagnostic criteria were used. Clinical features and response to treatment were prospectively recorded using headache diaries and magnetic resonance imaging of the brain was carried out. Twenty-four subjects with SUNCT or SUNA were identified. The incidence of these conditions was 1.2/100,000 and the prevalence 6.6/100,000. An episodic disease course was evident in 14/24 (58%) cases, whereas 10/24 (42%) had a chronic course. An aberrant vessel in close association with the fifth cranial nerve was seen in 88% of cases. A good or excellent response to lamotrigine was seen in 11/19 (58%) and was more effective in the episodic group (100%). A subcutaneous infusion of lignocaine proved completely effective on 11/14 (78%) occasions. SUNCT and SUNA are not rare conditions. Characterisation into episodic and chronic disease course appears to be of prognostic and therapeutic importance. Lamotrigine is effective in the majority of cases and subcutaneous lignocaine is useful as acute treatment for severe recalcitrant attacks.

Intraindividual variability (IIV) in cognitive performance shares systematic associations with aging-related processes, brain injury, and neurodegenerative pathology. However, little research has examined the neural underpinnings of IIV, with no studies investigating brain correlates of IIV in relation to retrieval success. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we examined links between IIV, recognition memory performance, and blood oxygenation level dependent activations. Nineteen older adults (70-79 years) were presented with 80 words at encoding, with brain scans and response latencies obtained during subsequent recognition. An index of IIV, the intraindividual standard deviation (ISD), was computed across successful latency trials. Decreasing ISDs were systematically associated with better recognition, faster latencies, and increased activation in the inferior parietal cortex (BA 40). Demonstrated links between less behavioral variability and parietal activations are consistent with the known importance of the parietal cortex for retrieval success. In support of extant findings and theory from neuroscience, neuropsychology, and cognitive aging, the present results suggest that behavioral IIV represents a proxy for neural integrity.
Nasal solitary chemoreceptor cells (SCCs) are a population of specialized chemosensory epithelial cells presumed to broaden trigeminal chemoreceptivity in mammals (Finger et al. [2003] Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 100:8981-8986). SCCs are innervated by peptidergic trigeminal nerve fibers (Finger et al. [2003]) but it is currently unknown if intact innervation is necessary for SCC development or survival. We tested the dependence of SCCs on innervation by eliminating trigeminal nerve fibers during development with neurogenin-1 knockout mice, during early postnatal development with capsaicin desensitization, and during adulthood with trigeminal lesioning. Our results demonstrate that elimination of innervation at any of these times does not result in decreased SCC numbers. In conclusion, neither SCC development nor mature cell maintenance is dependent on intact trigeminal innervation.
The two populations of cholinergic amacrine cells in the inner nuclear layer (INL) and the ganglion cell layer (GCL) differ in their spatial organization in the mouse retina, but the basis for this difference is not understood. The present investigation examined this issue in six strains of mice that differ in their number of cholinergic cells, addressing how the regularity, packing, and spacing of these cells varies as a function of strain, layer, and density. The number of cholinergic cells was lower in the GCL than in the INL in all six strains. The nearest neighbor and Voronoi domain regularity indexes as well as the packing factor were each consistently lower for the GCL. While these regularity indexes and the packing factor were largely stable across variation in density, the effective radius was inversely related to density for both the GCL and INL, being smaller and more variable in the GCL. Consequently, despite the lower densities in the GCL, neighboring cells were more likely to be positioned closer to one another than in the higher-density INL, thereby reducing regularity and packing. This difference in the spatial organization of cholinergic cells may be due to the cells in the GCL having been passively displaced by fascicles of optic axons and an expanding retinal vasculature during development. In support of this interpretation, we show such displacement of cholinergic somata relative to their dendritic stalks and a decline in packing efficiency and regularity during postnatal development that is more severe for the GCL.
The selection of distinct movements involved in various body postures and locomotion is often dependent on higher-order descending neurons. To study how such cells select different actions, we used a nearly-intact leech preparation (Hirudo sp.) in which cephalic projection interneurons were recorded and stimulated while the leech generated overt behaviors. Two long-distance projecting neurons were identified in the sub-packet of the third neuromere (R3b) of the subesophageal ganglion. These interneurons, named R3b2 and R3b3, produced changes in whole-body posture, crawling and swimming. Cell R3b2 reliably caused the body to become turgid, to hyper-elongate, and to thrash cyclically. Such robust activity resembled struggling behavior exhibited by intact leeches when grasped. The neighboring cell R3b3 elicited body elongation accompanied by a static whole-body bend to the left or right. R3b3 activity was context-dependent, oscillated in phase with crawling, reset the crawl rhythm, and terminated swimming. Both neuronal types responded to multi-modal sensory stimulation delivered to various rostral and caudal regions of the body. Our study illustrates the need to study behavioral selection with a neuroethological approach, and provides a cellular substrate for the motor action-selection cluster proposed for the vertebrate brainstem.
Studies of Syrian golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) have yielded contradictory evidence as to whether the retina of this species supports a population of cones containing short-wavelength sensitive pigments. We undertook a re-examination of this issue by (a) measuring lens transmission, (b) determining complete spectral sensitivity functions using electroretinogram (ERG) flicker photometry, (c) employing a sensitive chromatic-adaptation paradigm in conjunction with ERG measurements to conduct a specific search for the presence of a short-wavelength sensitive mechanism, and (d) assaying for the presence of retinal mRNA using real-time, reverse transcription polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCR). Parallel measurements were made on Turkish hamster (Mesocricetus brandtii) and control measurements were derived from recordings made on a rodent whose retina is known to contain a population of short-wavelength sensitive cones (the rat, Rattus norvegicus). Although UV opsin transcripts can be detected in the retina of the Syrian hamster, the electrophysiological measurements imply that these are not translated. Syrian hamsters thus lack a functional short-wavelength sensitive pigment, and that seems also true for the Turkish hamster. Members of this genus belong to a disparate group of mammals that have lost function of their short-wavelength sensitive cone pigments through ancestral opsin gene mutations.
Profile comparison methods have been shown to be very powerful in creating accurate alignments of protein sequences, especially in the case of remotely related proteins (RRP). These methods take advantage of the observation that hydrophobic profiles are more conserved than the corresponding amino acid sequences. Here, we present the PROFALIGN algorithm, which allows one to perform a detailed comparative analysis, at both local and global levels of two protein sequence profiles. The user can either choose among four different hydrophobic scales (Miyazawa-Jernigan, Eisenberg, Engelman-Steiz, and Kyte-Doolittle) or can add a personal scale. The interface is designed for a wide range of users, including those who are not involved in protein research. It allows one to vary the alignment parameters (such as gap penalties, embedding, and profile smoothness). Secondary structure propensity is added as an optional alignment filter. Similar segments of two proteins are singled out on the basis of score. We have tested the algorithm with different Src homology 3 (SH3) domain fragments sharing low sequence homology but very similar three-dimensional (3D) structures. By using the Miyazawa-Jernigan hydrophobic scale, PROFALIGN was able to detect the strong correlation between the regions that are known to be crucial for SH3 transition state topology. PROFALIGN seems able to identify most of the mutual alignment of structures on the basis of their hydrophobic profiles, delimiting the regions containing the key determinants of folding. Therefore, the present methodology may be useful for the detection of the most structurally relevant positions inside remote related proteins.
While vg f gene knockout mice are hyperactive and hypermetabolic, surprisingly the TLQP-21 brain VGF peptide increased energy consumption, suggesting that opposing regulatory effects could be exerted by peptides alternatively cleaved from the VGF precursor. Using antisera to the VGF precursor C-terminus and three cleavage products, we revealed a distinct differential distribution in adrenal, certain peptides (VGF(422-430): PGH peptides) being found throughout bovine and swine medulla, while C-terminus and TLQP peptides were confined to adrenaline cells in the above species and in rat and C-terminally shortened forms (VGF(604-612): HVLL peptides) to nor-adrenaline cells. Random abattoir samples of bovine and swine adrenal contained 520+/-40 and 450+/-60 pmol/g (mean+/-s.e.m. respectively) of C-terminus peptides and similar or lower amounts of others. Upon gel chromatography, bona fide VGF precursor, approximately 7.5 and approximately 3.5 kDa forms were revealed by C-terminus assays, HVLL peptides being limited to small fragments. TLQP peptides included ~7.5 kDa form and peaks accounting for TLQP-21 and predicted TLQP-30 and TLQP-42. Low molecular weight (MW) PGH peptides were revealed, together with a high MW form possibly encompassing the VGF precursor N-terminus. In acutely stressed swine, a striking increase was seen for C-terminus and TLQP peptides, with no significant differences for PGH peptides. A similar response was found in rat TLQP peptides showing a major increase upon an acute swimming stress and 30 min thereafter. A differential processing of the VGF precursor encompassing many areas of its primary sequence and selective modulations of its derived peptides occur in adrenal medullary cells, possibly relevant to adaptive homeostatic responses.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) have both been implicated in modulating insulin secretion from pancreatic beta-cells. In the present study, we investigated the insulin-secreting activities of AVP and CRH in wild-type and AVP VIb receptor knockout mice. Both neuropeptides stimulated insulin secretion from isolated mouse pancreatic islets. The response of islets to CRH was increased fourfold by concomitant incubation with a subthreshold dose of AVP that alone did not stimulate insulin secretion. Activation of the endogenously expressed M3 receptor by the cholinergic agonist carbachol also potentiated CRH-induced insulin secretion, indicating that the phenomenon may be pathway specific (i.e. Ca2+-phospholipase C) rather than agonist specific. The protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors Ro-31-8425 and bisindolylmaleimide I attenuated the potentiating effect of AVP on CRH-stimulated insulin secretion and blocked AVP-stimulated insulin secretion. A possible interaction between the PKC and protein kinase A pathways was also investigated. The phorbol ester phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) stimulated insulin secretion, while the addition of both PMA and CRH enhanced insulin secretion over that measured with either PMA or CRH alone. Additionally, no AVP potentiation of CRH-stimulated insulin secretion was observed upon incubation in Ca2+-free Krebs-Ringer buffer. Taken together, the present study suggests a possible synergism between AVP and CRH to release insulin from pancreatic beta-cells that relies at least in part on activation of the PKC signaling pathway and is dependent on extracellular Ca2+. This is the first example of a possible interplay between the AVP and CRH systems outside of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Toddlers have been found to fail on a three-location search task involving the invisible displacements of an object, namely the C-not-B task. In this task, a child is shown the experimenter's hand that contains a toy. The toy then successively disappears under the three cloths (A, B, then C). The examiner silently releases the toy under the second cloth (B). The hidden object makes a bump in the B cloth that covers it. Young children emit a strong bias toward the last cloth that the experimenter's hand passes under, and this has been labeled the C-not-B error. One possible explanation for toddlers' failures in the C-not-B task is that children lack the motor inhibitory mechanisms. To test this hypothesis, the robustness of the C-not-B error was tested, in a first experiment, against variations in body parameters. By putting additional weights on the arm, the C-not-B error was reduced substantially and the C-not-B task had a higher rate of success. Indeed, in contrast to control participants, who ignored a visual clue indicating the correct location of the hidden object and reached for the last location of the experimenter's hand, the participants with arm weights initiated their reaching movements by using the visual clue. The findings from the second control group indicate that the dramatic increase in successful performance by children with arm weights is not merely a consequence of the focus on the attention to arm movements. The motion of the experimenter's hand in space appears to have made the task difficult because toddlers had no problems inferring that a lump under a cloth indicates the existence of an object without actually having watched an object be hidden there, as demonstrated in a second experiment. The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that C-not-B task content activates a prepotent motor response that preempts full consideration of a visual clue indicating the correct location of the hidden object. We propose that the success in the C-not-B task of toddlers with additional arm weights could result from a disruption of automatic hand movement that is triggered by sensory signals, namely salient features of the C-not-B task.
The authors previously described a procedure that permits rapid, multiple within-participant evaluations of contingency assessment (the &quot;streamed-trial&quot; procedure, M. J. C. Crump, S. D. Hannah, L. G. Allan, &amp; L. K. Hord, 2007). In the present experiments, they used the streamed-trial procedure, combined with the method of constant stimuli and a binary classification response, to assess the psychophysics of contingency assessment. This strategy provides a methodology for evaluating whether variations in contingency assessment reflect changes in the participant's sensitivity to the contingency or changes in the participant's response bias (or decision criterion). The sign of the contingency (positive or negative), outcome density, and imposition of an explicit payoff structure had little influence on sensitivity to contingencies but did influence the decision criterion. The authors discuss how a psychophysical analysis can provide a better understanding of findings in the literature such as mood and age effects on contingency assessment. They also discuss the relation between a psychophysical approach and an associative account of contingency assessment.


The potential influence of recruitment context in neuropsychological (NP) research is seldom addressed in the literature. Our experience with a previous large-scale study of MS cognitive impairment led us to speculate that referral questions and motivation bias significantly impact conclusions drawn from NP testing. We re-analyzed data from Benedict et al. (2006) and compared the results obtained across three groups of patients: paid research volunteers, clinical patients undergoing evaluation for routine monitoring of cognitive status, and clinical patients referred for diagnostic clarification, determination of disability benefits, and other more complex issues. Research volunteers were significantly younger and less frequently cognitively impaired compared to the clinical groups, greatly affecting prevalence estimates (45.6 to 65.6%). Significant correlations between depression and cognitive impairment were present only among the research volunteers. NP testing significantly predicted vocational outcomes in all groups. These results suggest that greater attention should be paid to the reasons patients agree to participate in NP testing.
Research into the processing of lexical ambiguities has provided a valuable paradigm for investigating the functional architecture of the language processing system in normal and neurologically impaired populations and specifically, how basal ganglia circuits and the neurotransmitter dopamine may act to enhance and/or suppress various meanings relative to the context in which the lexical ambiguity appears. In this review, we develop the hypothesis that an integrated basal ganglia thalamocortical circuit linking the striatum and inferior frontal cortex is involved in the enhancement and suppression of ambiguous word meanings when a lexical ambiguity is presented within a linguistic context. Reference to behavioral, neurophysiological, and neurochemical studies of subcortical function in both healthy populations and people with Parkinson's disease will be used to provide further support for the proposal that the subcortex is integrally involved in ambiguous word processing.
This review presents the state of the art of molecular MRI and its application to experimental neurology and neuroscience. We do not repeat a broad, comprehensive overview over the rapidly growing literature in the field of &quot;molecular MRI,&quot; which is achieved by several recent reviews. Instead, we focus here on the potential of this imaging technique and its challenges to achieve useful new information in various fields of application with the aim of visualizing cellular processes in the brain, in both the physiological and pathophysiological context. Particular attention will be given to the visualization of cells grafted into the brain. For this goal, the recent most exciting studies are selected as the best examples to elucidate the method's fast expanding potentials. Attention is also given to the aspects of producing synergies by combining molecular MRI with other molecular imaging modalities, thus generating the most complex pictures of cellular and molecular events in the brain under in vivo conditions.
Biomarker discovery is a central application in today's proteomic research. There is an urgent need for valid biomarkers to improve diagnostic tools and treatment in many disorders, such as the rapidly progressing neurodegenerative disorder amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) that has a fatal outcome in about 3 years and yet no curative treatment. Screening for clinically relevant biomarkers puts high demands on high-throughput, rapid and precise proteomic techniques. There is a large variety in the methods of choice involving mainly gel-based approaches as well as chromatographic techniques for multi-dimensional protein and peptide separations followed by mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. This special feature article will discuss some important aspects of MS-based clinical proteomics and biomarker discovery in the field of neurodegenerative diseases and ALS research respectively, with the aim to provide a prospective view on current and future research aspects in the field. Furthermore, examples for application of high-resolution MS-based proteomic strategies for ALS biomarker discovery will be demonstrated with two studies previously reported by our group. These studies include among others, utilization of capillary liquid chromatography-Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (LC-FTICR-MS) for advanced protein pattern classification in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples of ALS patients as well as highly sensitive protein identification in minimal amounts of postmortem spinal cord tissue and laser micro-dissected motor neurons using FT-ICR-MS in conjunction with nanoflow LC coupled to matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MALDI-TOF-TOF-MS).
Primary cilia have a broad tissue distribution and are present on most cell types in the human body. Until recently, they were considered to be redundant organelles, but progress over the past 5 years has led to an understanding of their role in normal mammalian development. The class of inherited disorders that involve aberrant ciliary function are known as ciliopathies, and although their range of severity can vary, they share some common and unexpected clinical phenotypes. The aim of this review is to assess recent insights into the structure, function and formation of primary cilia, and relate this to the pathology, molecular genetics and cell biology of the ciliopathies.
Although voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) activity, upregulated significantly in strongly metastatic human breast cancer cells, has been found to potentiate a variety of in vitro metastatic cell behaviors, the mechanism(s) regulating channel expression/activity is not clear. As a step toward identifying possible serum factors that might be responsible for this, we tested whether medium in which fetal bovine serum (FBS) was substituted with a commercial serum replacement agent (SR-2), comprising insulin and bovine serum albumin, would influence the VGSC-dependent in vitro metastatic cell behaviors. Human breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells were used as a model. Measurements of lateral motility, transverse migration and adhesion showed consistently that the channel's involvement in metastatic cell behaviors depended on the extracellular biochemical conditions. In normal medium (5% FBS), tetrodotoxin (TTX), a highly specific blocker of VGSCs, suppressed these cellular behaviors, as reported before. In contrast, in SR-2 medium, TTX had opposite effects. However, blocking endogenous insulin/insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling with AG1024 eliminated or reversed the anomalous effects of TTX. Insulin added to serum-free medium increased migration, and TTX increased it further. In conclusion, (1) the biochemical constitution of the extracellular medium had a significant impact upon breast cancer cells' in vitro metastatic behaviors and (2) insulin, in particular, controlled the mode of the functional association between cells' VGSC activity and metastatic machinery.
Readers of the physiological literature may be excused if they feel that fluid transport has become a complex and confusing field that is difficult to understand and to assess. The major theories of fluid-transporting epithelia are examined here with respect to their ability to explain quasi-isotonic fluid transport and its modulation by salt transport, osmotic permeability and basal tonicity. The basics of each theory are set out concisely, and their pros and cons are made explicit. Finally, a comparison is made in table form indicating their overall performance in relation to the problems of this difficult but important field.
The role of epigenetics in modulating gene expression in the development of organs and tissues and in disease states is becoming increasingly evident. Epigenetics refers to the several mechanisms modulating inheritable changes in gene expression that are independent of modifications of the primary DNA sequence and include post-translational modifications of nucleosomal histones, changes in DNA methylation, and the role of microRNA. This review focuses on the epigenetic regulation of gene expression in oligodendroglial lineage cells. The biological effects that post-translational modifications of critical residues in the N-terminal tails of nucleosomal histones have on oligodendroglial cells are reviewed, and the implications for disease and repair are critically discussed.
Bilateral peduncolopontine nucleus (PPN) and subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) was performed in six-advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. We report the effect of both PPN-DBS (25 Hz) and STN-DBS (185 Hz) on patient spinal reflex excitability by utilizing the soleus-Hoffman reflex (HR) threshold. Compared to controls (n = 9), patients showed an increase of HR-threshold, which was scarcely affected by levodopa, but significantly reduced by DBS. In particular, we found that PPN-DBS alone, or plus STN-DBS induced a complete recovery of HR-threshold up to control values. The HR-threshold changes, although do not allow to investigate the contribution of specific intraspinal pathways, suggest that PPN may play a key-role in modulating spinal excitability in PD possibly by improving the basal ganglia-brainstem descending system activity.
The psychoactive ingredient of marijuana, Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC), can evoke apoptosis in cultured cortical neurones. Whilst the intracellular mechanisms responsible for this apoptotic pathway remain to be fully elucidated, we have recently identified a role for the CB1 type of cannabinoid (CB) receptor and the tumour suppressor protein, p53. In the current study, we demonstrate the Delta9-THC promotes a significant increase in lysosomal permeability in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The increase in lysosomal permeability was blocked by the CB1 receptor antagonist, AM251. Delta9-THC increased the localization of phospho-p53Ser15 at the lysosome and stimulated the release of the lysosomal cathepsin enzyme, cathepsin-D, into the cytosol. The p53 inhibitor, pifithrin-alpha and small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of p53 prevented the Delta9-THC-mediated increase in lysosomal permeability. Furthermore, the Delta9-THC -mediated induction of apoptosis was abrogated by a cell-permeable cathepsin-D inhibitor (10 microM). Thus, the study demonstrates that Delta9-THC impacts on the lysosomal system, via p53, to evoke lysosomal instability as an early event in the apoptotic cascade. This provides evidence for a novel link between the CB1 receptor and the lysosomal branch of the apoptotic pathway which is crucial in regulating neuronal viability following exposure to Delta9-THC.
We previously reported that delayed administration of the general cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor flavopiridol following global ischemia provided transient neuroprotection and improved behavioral performance. However, it failed to provide longer term protection. In the present study, we investigate the ability of delayed flavopiridol in combination with delayed minocycline, another neuroprotectant to provide sustained protection following global ischemia. We report that a delayed combinatorial treatment of flavopiridol and minocycline provides synergistic protection both 2 and 10 weeks following ischemia. However, protected neurons in the hippocampal CA1 are synaptically impaired as assessed by electrophysio logical field potential recordings. This is likely because of the presence of degenerated processes in the CA1 even with combinatorial therapy. This indicates that while we have addressed one important pre-clinical parameter by dramatically improving long-term neuronal survival with delayed combinatorial therapy, the issue of synaptic preservation of protected neurons still exists. These results also highlight the important observation that protection does not always lead to proper function.
The Alamar blue (resazurin) assay of cell viability monitors the irreversible reduction of non-fluorescent resazurin to fluorescent resorufin. This study focused on the reversible reduction of C12-resorufin to non-fluorescent C12-dihydroresorufin in motor nerve terminals innervating lizard intercostal muscles. Resting C12-resorufin fluorescence decreased when the activity of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) was accelerated with carbonyl cyanide m-chloro phenyl hydrazone, and increased when ETC activity was inhibited with cyanide. Trains of action potentials (50 Hz for 20-50 s), which reversibly decreased NADH fluorescence and partially depolarized the mitochondrial membrane potential, produced a reversible decrease in C12-resorufin fluorescence which had a similar time course. The stimulation-induced decrease in C12-resorufin fluorescence was blocked by inhibitors of ETC complexes I, III, and IV and by carbonyl cyanide m-chloro phenyl hydrazone, but not by inhibiting mitochondrial ATP synthesis with oligomycin. Mitochondrial depolarization and the decreases in C12-resorufin and NADH fluorescence depended on Ca2+ influx into the terminal, but not on vesicular transmitter release. These results suggest that the reversible reduction of C12-resorufin in stimulated motor nerve terminals is linked, directly or indirectly, to the reversible oxidation of NADH and to Ca(2+) influx into mitochondria, and provides an assay for rapid changes in motor terminal metabolism.
GM2/GD2 synthase gene knockout mice lack all complex gangliosides, which are abundantly expressed in the nervous systems of vertebrates. In turn, they have increased precursor structures GM3 and GD3, probably replacing the roles of the depleted complex gangliosides. In this study, we found that 9-O-acetyl GD3 is also highly expressed as one of the major glycosphingolipids accumulating in the nervous tissues of the mutant mice. The identity of the novel component was confirmed by neuraminidase treatment, thin layer chromatography-immunostaining, two-dimensional thin layer chromatography with base treatment, and mass spectrometry. All candidate factors reported to be possible inducer of 9-O- acetylation, such as bitamine D binding protein, acetyl CoA transporter, or O-acetyl ganglioside synthase were not up-regulated. Tis21 which had been reported to be a 9-O-acetylation inducer was partially down-regulated in the null mutants, suggesting that Tis21 is not involved in the induction of 9-O-acetyl-GD3 and that accumulated high amount of GD3 might be the main factor for the dramatic increase of 9-O-acetyl GD3. The ability to acetylate exogenously added GD3 in the normal mouse astrocytes was examined, showing that the wild-type brain might be able to synthesize very low levels of 9-O-acetyl GD3. Increased 9-O-acetyl GD3, in addition to GM3 and GD3, may play an important role in the compensation for deleted complex gangliosides in the mutant mice.
Several factors have been proposed to account for poor motor recovery after prolonged denervation, including motor neuron cell death and incomplete or poor regeneration of motor fibers into the muscle. Both may result from failure of the muscle and the distal motor nerve stump to continue expression of neurotrophic factors following delayed muscle reinnervation. This study investigated whether regenerating motor or sensory axons modulate distal nerve neurotrophic factor expression. We found that transected distal tibial nerve up-regulated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) mRNA, down-regulated neurotrophin-3 and ciliary neurotrophic factor mRNA, and that although these levels returned to normal with regeneration, the chronically denervated distal nerve stump continued to express these neurotrophic factors for at least 6 months following injury. A sensory nerve (the cutaneous saphenous nerve) sutured to distal tibial nerve lowered injury-induced BDNF and GDNF mRNA levels in distal stump, but repair with a mixed nerve (peroneal, containing muscle and cutaneous axons) was more effective. Repair with sensory or mixed nerves did not affect nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3 expression. Thus, distal nerve contributed to a neurotrophic environment for nerve regeneration for at least 6 months, and sensory nerve repair helped normalize distal nerve neurotrophic factor mRNA expression following denervation. Furthermore, as BDNF and GDNF levels in distal stump increased following denervation and returned to control levels following reinnervation, their levels serve as markers for the status of regeneration by either motor or sensory nerve.
The effects of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide [arachidonylethanolamide (AEA)] on the function of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) were investigated using the 86Rb+ efflux assay in thalamic synaptosomes. AEA reversibly inhibited 86Rb+ efflux induced by 300 microM ACh with an IC50 value of 0.9 +/- 2 microM. Pre-treatment with the cannabinoid (CB1) receptor antagonist SR141716A (1 microM), the CB2 receptor antagonist SR144528 (1 microM), or pertussis toxin (0.2 mg/mL) did not alter the inhibitory effects of AEA, suggesting that known CB receptors are not involved in AEA inhibition of nAChRs. AEA inhibition of 86Rb+ efflux was not reversed by increasing acetylcholine (ACh) concentrations. In radioligand binding studies, the specific binding of [3H]-nicotine was not altered in the presence of AEA, indicating that AEA inhibits the function of nAChR in a non-competitive manner. Neither the amidohydrolase inhibitor phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (0.2 mM) nor the cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin, (5 microM) affected AEA inhibition of nAChRs, suggesting that the effect of AEA is not mediated by its metabolic products. Importantly, the extent of AEA inhibition of 86Rb+ efflux was significantly attenuated by the absence of 1% fatty acid free bovine serum albumin pre-treatment, supporting previous findings that fatty acid-like compounds modulate the activity of nAChRs. Collectively, the results indicate that AEA inhibits the function of nAChRs in thalamic synaptosomes via a CB-independent mechanism and that the background activity of these receptors is affected by fatty acids and AEA.
Adenosine is an endogenous byproduct of metabolism that regulates cerebral blood flow and modulates neurotransmission. Four receptors, with affinities ranging from nanomolar to micromolar, mediate the effects of adenosine. Real-time measurements are needed to understand the extracellular adenosine concentrations available to activate these receptors. In this study, we measured the subsecond time course of adenosine efflux in the caudate-putamen of anesthetized rats after a 1 s, high-frequency stimulation of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at carbon-fiber microelectrodes was used for simultaneous detection of adenosine and dopamine, which have different oxidation potentials. While dopamine was immediately released after electrical stimulation, adenosine accumulation was slightly delayed and cleared in about 15 seconds. The concentration of adenosine measured after electrical stimulation was 0.94 +/- 0.09 microM. An adenosine kinase inhibitor, adenosine transport inhibitor, and a histamine synthetic precursor were used to pharmacologically confirm the identity of the measured substance as adenosine. Adenosine efflux was also correlated with increases in oxygen, which occur because of changes in cerebral blood flow. This study shows that extracellular adenosine transiently increases after short bursts of neuronal activity in concentrations that can activate receptors.
Sodium terephthalate was shown to be a new robust and sensitive chemical trap for highly reactive oxygen species (hROS), which lacks the drawbacks of the salicylic acid method. Reaction of the almost non-fluorescent terephthalate (TA2-) with hydroxyl radicals or ferryl-oxo species resulted in the stoichiometric formation of the brilliant fluorophor, 2-hydroxyterephthalate (OH-TA). Neither hydrogen peroxide nor superoxide reacts in this system. This procedure was validated for determining hROS formation during microdialysis under in vivo conditions as well as by in vitro studies. The detection limit of OH-TA in microdialysis samples was 0.5 fmol/muL. Derivatization of samples with o-phthalaldehyde, for amino acid detection, had no effect on OH-TA fluorescence, which could easily be resolved from the amino acid derivatives by HPLC, allowing determination in a single chromatogram. Use of terephthalate in microdialysis experiments showed the neurotoxin kainate to evoke hROS formation in a dose-dependent manner. The presence of TA2- in the perfusion fluid did not affect basal or evoked release of aspartate, glutamate, taurine and GABA. Assessment of cell death 'ex vivo' showed TA2- to be non-toxic at concentrations up to 1 mM. The in vitro results in the Fenton system (Fe2+ + H2O2) indicate a mechanism whereby TA2- forms a primary complex with Fe2+ followed by an intramolecular hydroxylation accompanied by intramolecular electron transfer.
We sought the effect of estradiol (E) and progesterone (P) on survival gene expression in laser captured serotonin neurons and in the dorsal raphe region of monkeys with cDNA array analysis. Spayed rhesus macaques were treated with either placebo, E or E + P via Silastic implant for 1 month prior to killing. First, RNA from a small block of midbrain containing the dorsal raphe was hybridized to Rhesus Gene Chips (n = 3/treatment). There was a significant change in 854 probe sets with E +/- P treatment (anova, p &lt; 0.05); however, only 151 probes sets exhibited a twofold or greater change. Twenty-five genes related to cell survival changed significantly. The expression of vascular endothelial growth factor, superoxide dismutase (SOD1), and the caspase inhibitor, BIRC4, was confirmed with quantitative RT-PCR. Then, RNA from laser captured serotonin neurons (n = 2/treatment) was hybridized to Rhesus Gene Chips. There was a significant change in 744 probe sets, but 10 493 probe sets exhibited a twofold or greater change. Pivotal changes in apoptosis and cell cycle pathways included twofold or greater increases in SOD1, IkappaBalpha, Fas apoptotic inhibitory molecule, fibroblast growth factor-receptor 2 (FGFR2), neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor 2 (NTRK2), phosphoinositide-3-kinase (p85 subunit), cyclic AMP dependent protein kinase (PKA) (catalytic subunit), calpain 2, and ataxia telangectasia mutated (ATM). Twofold or greater decreases occurred in TNF receptor interacting serine-threonine kinase 1 (RIP1), BH3 interacting domain death agonist (BID), apoptotic peptidase activating factor 1 (Apaf1), caspase recruitment domain 8 (CARD8), apoptosis inducing factor (AIF), Diablo and Cyclins A, B, D, and E. The regulation of SOD1, calpain 2, Diablo, and Cyclin D was confirmed with quantitative RT-PCR (n = 3/treatment). The data indicate that ovarian steroids target the cytokine-signaling pathway, caspase-dependent and -independent pathways and cell cycle proteins to promote serotonin neuron survival.
Glutamate is the major excitatory amino acid of the mammalian brain but can be toxic to neurones if its extracellular levels are not tightly controlled. Astrocytes have a key role in the protection of neurones from glutamate toxicity, through regulation of extracellular glutamate levels via glutamate transporters and metabolic and antioxidant support. In this study, we report that cultures of rat astrocytes incubated with high extracellular glutamate (5 mM) exhibit a twofold increase in the extracellular concentration of the tripeptide antioxidant glutathione (GSH) over 4 h. Incubation with glutamate did not result in an increased release of lactate dehydrogenase, indicating that the rise in GSH was not because of membrane damage and leakage of intracellular pools. Glutamate-induced increase in extracellular GSH was also independent of de novo GSH synthesis, activation of NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors or inhibition of extracellular GSH breakdown. Dose-response curves indicate that GSH release from rat astrocytes is significantly stimulated even at 0.1 mM glutamate. The ability of astrocytes to increase GSH release in the presence of extracellular glutamate could be an important neuroprotective mechanism enabling neurones to maintain levels of the key antioxidant, GSH, under conditions of glutamate toxicity.
Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is a complex hereditary disease caused by an enzymatic defect in the last step of cholesterol biosynthesis. Progressive retinal degeneration occurs in an AY9944-induced rat model of SLOS, with biochemical and electroretinographic hallmarks comparable with the human disease. We evaluated alterations in the non-sterol lipid components of the retina in this model, compared with age-matched controls, using lipidomic analysis. The levels of 16:0-22:6 and 18:0-22:6 phosphatidylcholine molecular species in retinas were less by &gt; 50% and &gt; 33%, respectively, in rats treated for either 2 or 3 months with AY9944. Relative to controls, AY9944 treatment resulted in &gt; 60% less di-22:6 and &gt; 15% less 18:0-22:6 phosphatidylethanolamine molecular species. The predominant phosphatidylserine (PS) molecular species in control retinas were 18:0-22:6 and di-22:6; notably, AY9944 treatment resulted in &gt; 80% less di-22:6 PS, relative to controls. Remarkably, these changes occurred in the absence of n3 fatty acid deficiency in plasma or liver. Thus, the retinal lipidome is globally altered in the SLOS rat model, relative to control rats, with the most profound changes being less phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and PS molecular species containing docosahexaenoic acid (22:6). These findings suggest that SLOS may involve additional metabolic compromise beyond the primary enzymatic defect in the cholesterol pathway.
Autosomal recessive hereditary inclusion-body myopathy (h-IBM) is caused by mutations of the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase gene, a rate-limiting enzyme in the sialic acid metabolic pathway. Previous studies have demonstrated an abnormal sialylation of glycoproteins in h-IBM. h-IBM muscle shows the abnormal accumulation of proteins including amyloid-beta (Abeta). Neprilysin (NEP), a metallopeptidase that cleaves Abeta, is characterized by the presence of several N-glycosylation sites, and changes in these sugar moieties affect its stability and enzymatic activity. In the present study, we found that NEP is hyposialylated and its expression and enzymatic activity reduced in all h-IBM muscles analyzed. In vitro, the experimental removal of sialic acid by Vibrio Cholerae neuraminidase in cultured myotubes resulted in reduced expression of NEP. This was most likely because of a post-translational modification consisting in an abnormal sialylation of the protein that leads to its reduced stability. Moreover, treatment with Vibrio Cholerae neuraminidase was associated with an increased immunoreactivity for Abeta mainly in the form of distinct cytoplasmic foci within myotubes. We hypothesize that, in h-IBM muscle, hyposialylated NEP has a role in hampering the cellular Abeta clearing system, thus contributing to its abnormal accumulation within vulnerable fibers and possibly promoting muscle degeneration.
Neuronal excitability can cooperate with synaptic transmission to control the information storage. This regulation of neuronal plasticity can be affected by alterations in neuronal inputs and accomplished by modulation of voltage-dependent ion channels. In this study, we report that enhanced excitatory input negatively regulated neuronal excitability. Enhanced excitatory input by glutamate, electric field stimulation or high K+ increased transient outward K+ current, whereas did not affect the delayed rectifier K+ current in rat cultured cortical neurons. Both the voltage-dependent K+ channel 4.2 and 4.3 subunits contributed to the increase. The increase in the K+ current density by Kv4.2 was ascribed to its cytoplasmic membrane translocation, which was mediated by NMDA type of glutamate receptor. Furthermore, enhanced excitatory input inhibited neuronal excitability. Taken together, our results suggest that excitatory neurotransmission affects neuronal excitability via the regulation of the K+ channel membrane translocation.
Members of the interleukin-6 cytokine family, including leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), signal through gp130. The neuroprotective role of gp130 activation has been widely demonstrated in both CNS and PNS, but the mechanism by which this is accomplished is not well established. We investigated temporal and cell-specific activation of signaling pathways induced by LIF in the mature mouse retina. Intravitreal injection of LIF preserved photoreceptor function and prevented photoreceptor cell death from light-induced oxidative damage in a dose-dependent manner (2 days post-injection). A therapeutic dose of LIF induced rapid and sustained activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3. Activated STAT3 was localized to all the retinal neurons and glial cells, including photoreceptors. Activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 was robust but transient in Mller glial cells, and undetectable at the time of light exposure. Akt was not activated by LIF. We also show that at the time of neuroprotection, STAT3 but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 or the Akt pathways was active in LIF-treated retinas, and activated STAT3 was clearly localized in transcriptionally active areas of photoreceptor nuclei. Our data suggest that photoreceptor protection in response to LIF can be directly mediated by activation of STAT3 in photoreceptors.
Evidence for increased calpain activity has been described in the hippocampus of rodent models of temporal lobe epilepsy. However, it is not known whether calpains are involved in the cell death that accompanies seizures. In this work, we characterized calpain activation by examining the proteolysis of calpain substrates and in parallel we followed cell death in the hippocampus of epileptic rats. Male Wistar rats were injected with kainic acid (10 mg/kg) intraperitoneally and killed 24 h later, after development of grade 5 seizures. We observed a strong Fluoro-Jade labeling in the CA1 and CA3 areas of the hippocampus in the rats that received kainic acid, when compared with saline-treated rats. Immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis for the calpain-derived breakdown products of spectrin showed evidence of increased calpain activity in the same regions of the hippocampus where cell death is observed. No evidence was found for caspase activation, in the same conditions. Treatment with the calpain inhibitor MDL 28170 significantly prevented the neurodegeneration observed in CA1. Taken together, our data suggest that early calpain activation, but not caspase activation, is involved in neurotoxicity in the hippocampus after status epilepticus.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is activated when the catalytic alpha subunit is phosphorylated on Thr172 and therefore, phosphorylation of the alpha subunit is used as a measure of activation. However, measurement of alpha subunit of AMPK (alpha-AMPK) phosphorylation in vivo can be technically challenging. To determine the most accurate method for measuring alpha-AMPK phosphorylation in the mouse brain, we compared different methods of killing and tissue preparation. We found that freeze/thawing samples after homogenization on ice dramatically increased alpha-AMPK phosphorylation in mice killed by cervical dislocation. Killing of mice by focused microwave irradiation, which rapidly heats the brain and causes enzymatic inactivation, prevented the freeze/thaw-induced increase in alpha-AMPK phosphorylation and similar levels of phosphorylation were observed compared with mice killed with cervical dislocation without freeze/thawing of samples. Sonication of samples in hot 1% sodium dodecyl sulfate blocked the freeze/thaw-induced increase in alpha-AMPK phosphorylation, but phosphorylation was higher in mice killed by cervical dislocation compared with mice killed by focused microwave irradiation. These results demonstrate that alpha-AMPK phosphorylation is dependent on method of killing and tissue preparation and that alpha-AMPK phosphorylation can increase in a manner that does not reflect biological alterations.
The neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) has long been implicated as a participant in the neurotoxicity caused by methamphetamine (METH), yet, its mechanism of action in this regard is not fully understood. Treatment of mice with the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT) lowers striatal cytoplasmic DA content by 55% and completely protects against METH-induced damage to DA nerve terminals. Reserpine, by disrupting vesicle amine storage, depletes striatal DA by more than 95% and accentuates METH-induced neurotoxicity. l-DOPA reverses the protective effect of AMPT against METH and enhances neurotoxicity in animals with intact TH. Inhibition of MAO-A by clorgyline increases pre-synaptic DA content and enhances METH striatal neurotoxicity. In all conditions of altered pre-synaptic DA homeostasis, increases or decreases in METH neurotoxicity paralleled changes in striatal microglial activation. Mice treated with AMPT, l-DOPA, or clorgyline + METH developed hyperthermia to the same extent as animals treated with METH alone, whereas mice treated with reserpine + METH were hypothermic, suggesting that the effects of alterations in cytoplasmic DA on METH neurotoxicity were not strictly mediated by changes in core body temperature. Taken together, the present data reinforce the notion that METH-induced release of DA from the newly synthesized pool of transmitter into the extracellular space plays an essential role in drug-induced striatal neurotoxicity and microglial activation. Subtle alterations in intracellular DA content can lead to significant enhancement of METH neurotoxicity. Our results also suggest that reactants derived from METH-induced oxidation of released DA may serve as neuronal signals that lead to microglial activation early in the neurotoxic process associated with METH.
A non-visual pigment melanopsin, which is localized in photosensitive retinal ganglion cells and is involved in the circadian photoentrainment and pupillary responses in mammals, is phylogenetically close to the visual pigments of invertebrates, such as insects and cephalopods. Recent studies suggested that melanopsin is a bistable pigment and drives a Gq-mediated signal transduction cascade, like the invertebrate visual pigments. Because detailed electrophysiological properties are somewhat different between the visual cells and the photosensitive ganglion cells, we here expressed and purified the invertebrate visual pigment and melanopsin to comparatively investigate their Gq-activation abilities. We successfully expressed and purified UV and blue light-sensitive visual pigments of the honeybee as well as the amphioxus melanopsin. Although the purified UV-sensitive pigment and the melanopsin lost their bistable nature during purification, reconstitution of the pigments in lipid vesicles resulted in return of the bistable nature. The light-dependent Gq-activation abilities among these reconstituted pigments are similar, suggesting that the electrophysiological differences do not depend on the Gq-activation step but rather on the other signal transduction steps and/or on cell properties. Our findings are also important in that this is the first report describes a heterologous large-scale expression of the Gq-coupled invertebrate visual pigments in cultured cells.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, which project to the striatum. The aim of this study was to analyze in vivo and in vitro consequences of dopamine depletion on amount of metabolites in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease using proton (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). The study was performed on control mice (n = 7) and MPTP-intoxicated mice (n = 7). All the experiments were performed at 9.4 T. For in vivo MRS acquisitions, mice were anesthetized and carefully placed on an animal handling system with the head centered in birdcage coil used for both excitation and signal reception. Spectra were acquired in a voxel (8 microL) centered in the striatum, applying a point-resolved spectroscopy sequence (TR = 4000 ms, TE = 8.8 ms). After in vivo MRS acquisitions, mice were killed; successful lesion verified by tyrosine hydroxylase immunolabeling on the substantia nigra pars compacta and in vitro MRS acquisitions performed on perchloric extracts of anterior part of mice brains. In vitro spectra were acquired using a standard one-pulse experiment. The absolute concentrations of metabolites were determined using jmrui (Lyon, France) from (1)H spectra obtained in vivo on striatum and in vitro on perchloric extracts. Glutamate (Glu), glutamine (Gln), and GABA concentrations obtained in vivo were significantly increased in striatum of MPTP-lesioned mice (Glu: 15.5 +/- 2.5 vs. 12.9 +/- 1.0 mmol/L, p &lt; 0.05; Gln: 2.3 +/- 0.9 vs. 1.8 +/- 0.6 mmol/L, p &lt; 0.05; GABA: 2.3 +/- 0.9 vs. 1.3 +/- 0.6 mmol/L, p &lt; 0.05). The in vitro results confirmed these results, Glu (10.9 +/- 2.5 vs. 7.9 +/- 1.7 micromol/g, p &lt; 0.05), Gln (6.8 +/- 2.9 vs. 4.3 +/- 1.0 micromol/g, p &lt; 0.05), and GABA (2.9 +/- 0.9 vs. 1.5 +/- 0.4 micromol/g, p &lt; 0.01). The present study strongly supports a hyperactivity of the glutamatergic cortico-striatal pathway hypothesis after dopaminergic denervation in association with an increase of striatal GABA levels. It further shows an increased of striatal Gln concentrations, perhaps as a strategy to protect neurons from Glu excitotoxic injury after striatal dopamine depletion.
Disruption of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca2+ homeostasis and ER dysfunction have been suggested to contribute to excitotoxic and ischaemic neuronal injury. Previously, we have characterized the neural transcriptome following ER stress and identified the BH3-only protein, p53 up-regulated mediator of apoptosis (PUMA), as a central mediator of ER stress toxicity. In this study, we investigated the effects of excitotoxic injury on ER Ca2+ levels and induction of ER stress responses in models of glutamate- and NMDA-induced excitotoxic apoptosis. While exposure to the ER stressor tunicamycin induced an ER stress response in cerebellar granule neurons, transcriptional activation of targets of the ER stress response, including PUMA, were absent following glutamate-induced apoptosis. Confocal imaging revealed no long-term changes in the ER Ca2+ level in response to glutamate. Murine cortical neurons and organotypic hippocampal slice cultures from PUMA+/+ and PUMA-/- animals provided no evidence of ER stress and did not differ in their sensitivity to NMDA. Finally, NMDA-induced excitotoxic apoptosis in vivo was not associated with ER stress, nor did deficiency in PUMA alleviate the injury induced. Our data suggest that NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxic apoptosis occurs in vitro and in vivo in an ER stress and PUMA independent manner.
While the regenerative capacity of the olfactory neuroepithelium has been well studied less is known about the molecular events controlling precursor cell activity. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is expressed at high levels in the olfactory system, and NPY has been shown to play a role in neuroregeneration of the brain. In this study, we show that the numbers of olfactory neurospheres derived from NPY, NPY/peptide YY, and Y1 receptor knockout mice are decreased compared with wild type (WT) controls. Furthermore, flow cytometric analysis of isolated horizontal basal cells, globose basal cells, and glandular cells showed that only glandular cells derived from WT mice, but not from NPY and Y1 receptor knockout mice, formed secondary neurospheres suggesting a critical role for NPY signaling in this process. Interestingly, olfactory function tests revealed that olfaction in Y1 knockout mice is impaired compared with those of WT mice, probably because of the reduced number of olfactory neurons formed. Together these results indicate that NPY and the Y1 receptor are required for the normal proliferation of adult olfactory precursors and olfactory function.
Arginine vasopressin and corticotrophin-releasing hormone synthesised and released from the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus are the prime mediators of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to stress. These neurohormones act synergistically to stimulate adrenocorticotophin (ACTH) secretion from the anterior pituitary, culminating in an increase in circulating glucocorticoids. Arginine vasopressin mediates this action at the arginine vasopressin 1b receptor (Avpr1b) located on pituitary corticotrophs. Arginine vasopressin is regarded as a minor ACTH secretagogue in rodents but evidence suggests that it has a role in mediating the neuroendocrine response to some acute and chronic stressors. To investigate the role of the Avpr1b in the HPA axis response to an acute and chronic (repeated) stress, we measured the plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentrations in three stress paradigms in both Avpr1b knockout and wild-type mice. Single acute exposure to restraint, forced swim and change in environment stressors elevated both plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentrations in wild-type animals. Conversely, the ACTH response to the acute stressors was significantly attenuated in Avpr1b knockout mice compared to their wild-type counterparts. Plasma corticosterone concentrations were reduced in Avpr1b knockout mice in response to change in environment but not to mild restraint or forced swim stress. Irrespective of genotype, there was no difference in the plasma ACTH or corticosterone concentrations in response to acute and repeated stressors. The data show that a functional Avpr1b is required for an intact pituitary ACTH response to the acute and chronic stressors used in this study. Furthermore, the normal corticosterone response to repeated exposure to change in environment stress also requires the Avpr1b to drive HPA axis responsiveness.





We investigated the utility of the Cambridge Behavioural Inventory (CBI), a carer-completed questionnaire, in a large cohort with Parkinson's disease (PD) (n = 215). In a sub-cohort of 112 patients with PD, the CBI was found to be a valid instrument compared with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory, PDQ-39 and UPDRS, with high internal consistency. Furthermore, in the whole cohort, the CBI was sensitive to changes in behaviour with disease progression. Comparison between CBI scores in PD and other neurodegenerative diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD) (n = 75), Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 96) and frontal variant frontotemporal dementia (fvFTD) (n = 64), revealed distinct profiles for each disease. Predominant deficits were &quot;sleep&quot;' and &quot;self care&quot; in PD; &quot;memory&quot; in HD and AD; and &quot;motivation&quot; and &quot;stereotypic behaviours&quot; in fvFTD. The CBI is a robust, easy-to-use and valid instrument, which has the capacity to discriminate between neurodegenerative diseases, and may be of value in monitoring therapeutic interventions.
DNA damage is a form of cell stress and injury that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of many neurologic disorders, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer disease, Down syndrome, Parkinson disease, cerebral ischemia, and head trauma. However, most data reveal only associations, and the role for DNA damage in direct mechanisms of neurodegeneration is vague with respect to being a definitive upstream cause of neuron cell death, rather than a consequence of the degeneration. Although neurons seem inclined to develop DNA damage during oxidative stress, most of the existing work on DNA damage and repair mechanisms has been done in the context of cancer biology using cycling nonneuronal cells but not nondividing (i.e. postmitotic) neurons. Nevertheless, the identification of mutations in genes that encode proteins that function in DNA repair and DNA damage response in human hereditary DNA repair deficiency syndromes and ataxic disorders is establishing a mechanistic precedent that clearly links DNA damage and DNA repair abnormalities with progressive neurodegeneration. This review summarizes DNA damage and repair mechanisms and their potential relevance to the evolution of degeneration in postmitotic neurons.
Voltage-gated KCNQ potassium channels are responsible for slowly activating potassium currents in heart, brain, and other tissues. Functional defects of KCNQ channels are linked with many diseases, including epilepsy and cardiac arrhythmias. Therefore KCNQ potassium channels have been widely studied, especially in the CNS. We have identified Drosophila CG11963, which encodes a protein orthologous to the beta subunit of mammalian succinyl-CoA synthetase (SCS, also known as succinate thiokinase), as a novel modulator of Drosophila KCNQ channels. Direct interaction of CG11963 and dKCNQ was demonstrated by yeast two-hybrid screen and coimmunoprecipitation. Cell surface biotinylation experiments further confirmed that CG11963 resides on the plasma membrane of tsA-201 cells. Coexpression of CG11963 with dKCNQ shifts the conductance-voltage (G-V) relationship of dKCNQ channels to more positive membrane potentials in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. Moreover, directly dialyzing glutathione S-transferase fusion CG11963 protein into CHO cells also shifts the dKCNQ G-V curve rightward. The effect of CG11963 persists in the presence of 1 mM adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a substrate of SCS. Taken together, our data define CG11963 as a new dKCNQ-binding protein capable of modulating the properties of the channel. Our evidence suggests that this modulation is mediated by direct interaction of CG11963 with the channel and is not dependent on ATP.
In the antisaccade task, subjects must execute an eye movement away from a visual target. Correctly executing an antisaccade requires inhibiting a prosaccade toward the visual target and programming a movement to the opposite side. This movement could be based on the inversion of the visual vector, corresponding to the distance between the fixation point and the visual target, or the motor vector of the unwanted prosaccade. We dissociated the two vectors by means of saccadic adaptation. Adaptation can be observed when systematic targeting errors are caused by the displacement of the visual target during the saccade. Adaptation progressively modifies saccade amplitude (defined by the motor vector) such that it becomes appropriate to the postsaccadic stimulus position and thus different from the visual vector of the target. If antisaccade preparation depended on visual vector inversion, rightward prosaccade adaptation should not transfer to leftward antisaccades (which are based on the same visual vector) but should transfer to rightward antisaccades (which are based on a visual vector inside the adaptation field). If antisaccade preparation depended on motor vector inversion, rightward prosaccade adaptation should transfer to leftward antisaccades (which are based on the same, adapted motor vector) but should not transfer to rightward antisaccades (which are based on a nonadapted motor vector). The results are in line with the first hypothesis, showing that vector inversion precedes saccadic adaptation and suggesting that antisaccade preparation depends on the inversion of the visual target vector.
In vertebrate hippocampal neurons, application of forskolin (an adenylyl cyclase activator) and rolipram (a phosphodiesterase inhibitor) is an effective technique for inducing chemical long-term potentiation (cLTP) that is N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR)-dependent. However, it is not known whether forskolin induces a similar potentiation in invertebrate synapses. Therefore, we examined whether forskolin plus rolipram treatment could induce potentiation at a known glutamatergic synapse in the leech (Hirudo sp.), specifically between the pressure (P) mechanosensory and anterior pagoda (AP) neurons. Perfusion of isolated ganglia with forskolin (50 muM) in conjunction with rolipram (0.1 muM) in Mg(2+)-free saline significantly potentiated the P-to-AP excitatory postsynaptic potential. Application of 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV, 100 muM), a competitive NMDAR antagonist, blocked the potentiation, indicating P-to-AP potentiation is NMDAR-dependent. Potentiation was blocked by injection of bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA, 1 mM) into the postsynaptic cell, but not by BAPTA injection into the presynaptic neuron, indicating a requirement for postsynaptic elevation of intracellular Ca(2+). Application of db-cAMP mimicked the potentiating effects of forskolin, and Rp-cAMP, an inhibitor of protein kinase A, blocked forskolin-induced potentiation. Potentiation was also blocked by autocamtide-2-related inhibitory peptide (AIP), indicating a requirement for activation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII). Finally, potentiation was blocked by botulinum toxin, suggesting that trafficking of glutamate receptors also plays a role in this form of synaptic plasticity. These experiments demonstrate that techniques used to induce cLTP in vertebrate synapses also induce NMDAR-dependent potentiation in the leech CNS and that many of the cellular processes that mediate LTP are conserved between vertebrate and invertebrate phyla.
In daily life, activities requiring the hand and eye to work separately are as frequent as activities requiring tight eye-hand coordination, and we effortlessly switch from one type of activity to the other. Such flexibility is unlikely to be achieved without each effector &quot;knowing&quot; where the other one is at all times, even when it is static. Here, we provide behavioral evidence that the mere position of the static hand affects one eye movement parameter: saccadic reaction time. Two monkeys were trained and 11 humans instructed to perform nondelayed or delayed visually guided saccades to either a right or a left target while holding their hand at a location either near or far from the eye target. From trial to trial, target locations and hand positions varied pseudorandomly. Subjects were tested both when they could and when they could not see their hand. The main findings are 1) the presence of the static hand in the workspace did affect saccade initiation; 2) this interaction persisted when the hand was invisible; 3) it was strongly influenced by the delay duration: hand-target proximity retarded immediate saccades, whereas it could hasten delayed saccades; and 4) this held true both for humans and for each of the two monkeys. We propose that both visual and nonvisual hand position signals are used by the primates' oculomotor system for the planning and execution of saccades, and that this may result in a hand-eye competition for spatial attentional resources that explains the delay-dependent reversal observed.
Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) are photoreceptors of the mammalian eye that drive pupillary responses, synchronization of circadian rhythms, and other reflexive responses to daylight. Melanopsin is the ipRGC photopigment, but the signaling cascade through which this invertebrate-like opsin triggers the photocurrent in these cells is unknown. Here, using patch-clamp recordings from dissociated ipRGCs in culture, we show that a membrane-associated phosphoinositide cascade lies at the heart of the ipRGC phototransduction mechanism, similar to the cascade in rhabdomeric photoreceptors of invertebrate eyes. When ipRGCs were illuminated, melanopsin activated a G protein of the G(q/11) class, stimulating the effector enzyme phospholipase C. The presence of these signaling components in ipRGCs was confirmed by single-cell RT-PCR and immunofluorescence. The photoresponse was fully functional in excised inside-out patches of ipRGC membrane, indicating that all core signaling components are within or tightly coupled to the plasma membrane. The striking similarity of phototransduction in ipRGCs and invertebrate rhabdomeric photoreceptors reinforces the emerging view that these cells have a common evolutionary origin.
In an earlier study, we demonstrated that nitric oxide (NO) causes the long-lasting membrane hyperpolarization in the presumed basal forebrain cholinergic (BFC) neurons by cGMP-PKG-dependent activation of leak K+ currents in slice preparations. In the present study, we investigated the ionic mechanisms underlying the long-lasting membrane hyperpolarization with special interest in the pH sensitivity because 8-Br-cGMP-induced K+ current displayed Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz rectification characteristic of TWIK-related acid-sensitive K+ (TASK) channels. When examined with the ramp command pulse depolarizing from -130 to -40 mV, the presumed BFC neurons displayed a pH-sensitive leak K+ current that was larger in response to pH decrease from 8.3 to 7.3 than in response to pH decrease from 7.3 to 6.3. This K+ current was similar to TASK1 current in its pH sensitivity, whereas it was highly sensitive to Ba(2+), unlike TASK1 current. The 8-Br-cGMP-induced K+ currents in the presumed BFC neurons were almost completely inhibited by lowering external pH to 6.3 as well as by bath application of 100 microM Ba(2+), consistent with the nature of the leak K+ current expressed in the presumed BFC neurons. After 8-Br-cGMP application, the K+ current obtained by pH decrease from 7.3 to 6.3 was larger than that obtained by pH decrease from pH 8.3 to 7.3, contrary to the case seen in the control condition. These observations strongly suggest that 8-Br-cGMP activates a pH- and Ba(2+)-sensitive leak K+ current expressed in the presumed BFC neurons by modulating its pH sensitivity.
Recording single-neuron activity from a specific brain region across multiple trials in response to the same stimulus or execution of the same behavioral task is a common neurophysiology protocol. The raster plots of the spike trains often show strong between-trial and within-trial dynamics, yet the standard analysis of these data with the peristimulus time histogram (PSTH) and ANOVA do not consider between-trial dynamics. By itself, the PSTH does not provide a framework for statistical inference. We present a state-space generalized linear model (SS-GLM) to formulate a point process representation of between-trial and within-trial neural spiking dynamics. Our model has the PSTH as a special case. We provide a framework for model estimation, model selection, goodness-of-fit analysis, and inference. In an analysis of hippocampal neural activity recorded from a monkey performing a location-scene association task, we demonstrate how the SS-GLM may be used to answer frequently posed neurophysiological questions including, What is the nature of the between-trial and within-trial task-specific modulation of the neural spiking activity? How can we characterize learning-related neural dynamics? What are the timescales and characteristics of the neuron's biophysical properties? Our results demonstrate that the SS-GLM is a more informative tool than the PSTH and ANOVA for analysis of multiple trial neural responses and that it provides a quantitative characterization of the between-trial and within-trial neural dynamics readily visible in raster plots, as well as the less apparent fast (1-10 ms), intermediate (11-20 ms), and longer (&gt;20 ms) timescale features of the neuron's biophysical properties.
Human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs) are believed to have important potential in clinical applications and basic neuroscience research. In the present study, we created a new immortalized human neural cell line, hSN12W-TERT, derived from human fetal ventral telencephalon, using IRES-based retroviral overexpression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase. We showed that after more than 40 passages, hSN12W-TERT cells possess high telomerase activity, maintain a normal diploid karyotype, and retain the characteristics of hNPCs. Under proliferative conditions, these cells remained undifferentiated, expressing the neural progenitor cell markers nestin, vimentin, and Sox2. The cells were able to differentiate into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes after a significant decrease in the level of telomerase following withdrawal of growth factors. The neurons were postmitotic and achieved electrophysiologic competence. Furthermore, we showed that most neurons were GABAergic, especially on differentiation induced by bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP2). RT-PCR analysis also confirmed that hSN12W-TERT cells expressed mammalian achaete-scute homolog 1 (Mash1) and Dlx2, genes associated with the development of GABAergic cortical interneurons. BMP2 exposure may activate a positive-feedback loop of BMP signaling in hSN12W-TERT cells. Our data indicated that this hSN12W-TERT cell line could be a valuable experimental tool with which to study the regulatory roles of intrinsic and extrinsic factors in human neural stem cell biology and that it would be useful in basic research and in research seeking to discover novel drug targets for clinical candidates.
Retinoic acid (RA) is a well-known antiinflammatory agent. In this study, we show that RA has a dual effect on cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in inflammatory activated microglia, the resident brain macrophages. After treatment of microglia with LPS or thrombin, COX-2 expression was induced in two phases, specifically, an initial increase at about 12 hr after stimulation followed by a decrease, and another increase at about 48-72 hr. However, PGE(2) and 15d-PGJ(2) were detected at about 12 hr, and the levels continuously increased thereafter. Interestingly, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) suppressed the expression of early-phase COX-2 but augmented late-phase COX-2 and inhibited iNOS in the whole time sequence. ATRA enhanced PGE(2) production but had little effect on 15d-PGJ(2). Moreover, ATRA selectively up-regulated the expression of a PGE(2) synthase, mPGES-1, but had little effect on the PGD(2) synthase, H-PGDS. The results collectively suggest that ATRA modulates microglial responses to inflammatory stimulators, particularly at the late phase, via enhancement of COX-2 expression and PGE(2) production.
We have characterized lipopolysaccharide (LPS) preconditioning-induced neuroprotective mechanisms against nitric oxide (NO) toxicity. Pretreatment of rat cortical cultures with LPS attenuated neurotoxicity of NO donors, including sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and diethylamine NONOate (NONOate). A transiently increased expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) accompanied by an increase in NO production was observed during LPS preconditioning. Application of NOS inhibitors including L-N(5)-(1-iminoethyl)-ornithine (L-NIO) and L-nitroarginine methylester (L-NAME) abolished LPS-dependent protection against SNP toxicity. The LPS effect was also blocked by KT5823, an inhibitor of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG). Consistently, application of 8-bromo-cyclic GMP (8-Br-cGMP), a slowly degradable cGMP analogue capable of PKG activation, was neuroprotective. LPS preconditioning resulted in a heightened neuronal expression of Bcl-2 protein that was abolished by L-NAME and KT5823, the respective inhibitors of NOS and PKG. Together, our results reveal the signaling cascade of &quot;LPS --&gt; eNOS --&gt; NO --&gt; cGMP/PKG --&gt; Bcl-2&quot; that might have contributed to the LPS protective effects in cortical neurons.
With the mouse pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), we showed a progressive loss of both principal cells and calbindin (CB)-, calretinin (CR)-, and parvalbumin (PV)-immunopositive interneurons in layers II-III of lateral entorhinal cortex (LEnt) from 2 months to 1 year after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (PISE). In the efferent pathway of LEnt, more Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L)-labelled en passant and terminal boutons with larger diameters were shown in the hippocampus and subiculum; in the prefrontal, piriform, and perirhinal cortices; and in the amygdaloid complex in experimental mice at the two time points compared with the control after iontophoretical injection of an anterograde tracer PHA-L into the LEnt. Furthermore, the numbers of CB- or CR-immunopositive neurons contacted by PHA-L-labelled en passant and terminal boutons decreased in most of these areas at 2 months or 1 year after PISE. In the afferent pathway of LEnt, the numbers of retrogradely labelled neurons were reduced significantly in the ipsilateral piriform cortex and endopiriform nucleus at 2 months and 1 year and in the reuniens thalamic nucleus only at 1 year after injection of a retrograde tracer cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) into the LEnt. The percentages of the number of CTB and CB or CR double-labelled neurons of all the retrogradely labelled neurons were also decreased in the reunions thalamic nucleus at 1 year after PISE. It is concluded that both cytoarchitectonic change and reorganization of afferent and efferent pathways in LEnt may be involved in the occurrence of TLE.
The expression of NMDA receptor NR1 subunit mRNA was studied in rat auditory cortex (AC) on different postnatal days using digoxigenin-labeled oligonucleotide probes. The results showed that NR1 expression increased from birth to postnatal day 35 (P35) and remained constant until P56. The most significant increases occurred between P7 and P14. Changes in NR1 mRNA expression in rats subjected to monaural hearing deprivation on P7, P21, P35, and P49 were examined on P56. Between P7 and P21, when the rat auditory system was still in a critical period of development, NR1 mRNA expression was lower in the contralateral AC, which received auditory signals from the plugged ear, than in the ipsilateral AC. However, no significant difference was observed between the rats deprived of hearing on P35 and those deprived of hearing on P42, the end of the critical period of auditory development. These results showed that monaural hearing deprivation during early postnatal development was associated with decreased NR1 mRNA expression in the contralateral AC and suggested the involvement of NR1 in auditory function during development. They also indicated that, during postnatal development, environmental factors changed the functional plasticity of neurons in the AC through NR1 receptor expression. Taken together, these findings provide a possible underlying mechanism for the development of postnatal auditory function.
Franois Magendie lived during a tumultuous period in French history. Although this early medical pioneer made significant contributions to the fields of neuroanatomy, physiology, and pharmacology, little information is found in the non-French literature regarding this significant person in history. Based on this review, one could also consider this trained surgeon as an early pioneer of neurosurgery. For example, he is known to have used Galvanic current to treat various neuralgias, described a technique for extracting cerebrospinal fluid and quantitated and described its characteristics in normal and pathological specimens, and elucidated the functions of the the cranial nerves using vivisection. Additionally, he accurately described the functions of the dorsal and ventral rootlets using vivisection, and realized that the exposed meninges were susceptible to painful stimuli. Our current knowledge is based on the early contributions of scientists such as Franois Magendie.

Oligodendrocyte cell death is a significant component of the secondary damage following spinal cord injury (SCI) and other neurodegenerative disorders. However, the mechanisms underlying oligodendroglial apoptotic cell death and the potential relationship to Fas receptor (FasR) activation require further clarification. Here, using MO3.13, a human oligodendroglial cell line, we show clear evidence of apoptosis upon exposure to soluble Fas ligand (sFasL). Apoptosis was linked to caspase-8, -9, and -3 activity and resulted in DNA fragmentation detected by deoxynucleotide transferase dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL). Dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim) was an early event and temporally coincided with mitochondrial outer membrane permeability (MOMP), demonstrated by the presence of cytochrome c and apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) in cytosolic fractions. Pretreatment with 100 microM of the caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk prior to sFasL exposure reduced caspase activation, the dissipation of DeltaPsim, MOMP, and apoptotic cell death. These data provide clear evidence that Fas activation induces apoptosis in oligodendrocytes signaling through intrinsic and extrinsic events. Moreover, we provide evidence for the first time that AIF may play a role in caspase-independent apoptotic execution following Fas activation of oligodendrocytes. These data also add to an emerging body of evidence, which strongly implicates Fas-mediated apoptosis of oligodendrocytes as a potential mediator in the pathobiology of a variety of neurological disorders, including SCI.
Following crush injury to the facial nerve in Syrian hamsters, treatment with androgens enhances axonal regeneration rates and decreases time to recovery. It has been demonstrated in vitro that the ability of androgen to enhance neurite outgrowth in motoneurons is dependent on neuritin-a protein that is involved in the re-establisment of neuronal connectivity following traumatic damage to the central nervous system and that is under the control of several neurotrophic and neuroregenerative factors--and we have hypothesized that neuritin is a mediator of the ability of androgen to increase peripheral nerve regeneration rates in vivo. Testosterone treatment of facial nerve-axotomized hamsters resulted in an approximately 300% increase in neuritin mRNA levels 2 days post-injury. Simultaneous treatment with flutamide, an androgen receptor blocker that is known to prevent androgen enhancement of nerve regeneration, abolished the ability of testosterone to upregulate neuritin mRNA levels. In a corroborative in vitro experiment, the androgen dihydrotestosterone induced an approximately 100% increase in neuritin mRNA levels in motoneuron-neuroblastoma cells transfected with androgen receptors, but not in cells without androgen receptors. These data confirm that neuritin is under the control of androgens, and suggest that neuritin is an important effector of androgen in enhancing peripheral nerve regeneration following injury. Given that neuritin has now been shown to be involved in responses to both central and peripheral injuries, and appears to be a common effector molecule for several neurotrophic and neurotherapeutic agents, understanding the neuritin pathway is an important goal for the clinical management of traumatic nervous system injuries.
Treadmill training with weight-support is a therapeutic strategy used in human patients after spinal cord injury (SCI). Exercise leads to locomotor improvement in a variety of animal models; however, the effect of exercise on axonal regrowth has not been directly examined. This study used several locomotor tests, including kinematic gait analysis, to analyze the differences between treadmill-trained and untrained mice in the usage of their paretic hindlimb following a low thoracic hemisection. Analysis of muscle atrophy, anterograde axonal tracing and expression of the synaptic markers synaptophysin and PSD95 were used to correlate observed behavioural changes with anatomical data. Treadmill trained mice showed significant improvement in use of their paretic hindlimb after 4 weeks of exercise compared to untrained mice in an open field locomotor test (Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan [BBB] scale), grid walking and climbing and inter-limb coordination tests. Movement of their hip joint started to approximate the pattern of intact mice, with concomitant use of their ankle. Unlike untrained mice, exercised mice showed decreased muscle atrophy, increased axonal regrowth and collateral sprouting proximal to the lesion site, with maintenance of synaptic markers on motor neurons in the ventral horn. However, there was no axonal regeneration into or across the lesion site indicating that the improved behaviour may have been, at least in part, due to enhanced neural activity above the lesion site.




We have recently proposed the hypothesis that inhibition of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) 10A may represent a new pharmacological approach to the treatment of schizophrenia (Curr Opin Invest Drug 8:54-59, 2007). PDE10A is highly expressed in the medium spiny neurons of the mammalian striatum (Brain Res 985:113-126, 2003; J Histochem Cytochem 54:1205-1213, 2006; Neuroscience 139:597-607, 2006), where the enzyme is hypothesized to regulate both cAMP and cGMP signaling cascades to impact early signal processing in the corticostriatothalamic circuit (Neuropharmacology 51:374-385, 2006; Neuropharmacology 51:386-396, 2006). Our current understanding of the physiological role of PDE10A and the therapeutic utility of PDE10A inhibitors derives in part from studies with papaverine, the only pharmacological tool for this target extensively profiled to date. However, this agent has significant limitations in this regard, namely, relatively poor potency and selectivity and a very short exposure half-life after systemic administration. In the present report, we describe the discovery of a new class of PDE10A inhibitors exemplified by TP-10 (2-{4-[-pyridin-4-yl-1-(2,2,2-trifluoro-ethyl)-1H-pyrazol-3-yl]-phenoxymethyl}-quinoline succinic acid), an agent with greatly improved potency, selectivity, and pharmaceutical properties. These new pharmacological tools enabled studies that provide further evidence that inhibition of PDE10A represents an important new target for the treatment of schizophrenia and related disorders of basal ganglia function.
The ability of receptor activation to regulate osmosensitive K+ fluxes (monitored as 86Rb+) in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma has been examined. Incubation of SH-SY5Y cells in buffers rendered increasingly hypotonic by a reduction in NaCl concentration resulted in an enhanced basal efflux of Rb+ (threshold of release, 200 mOsM) but had no effect on Rb(+) influx. Addition of the muscarinic cholinergic agonist, oxotremorine-M (Oxo-M), potently enhanced Rb+ efflux (EC50 = 0.45 microM) and increased the threshold of release to 280 mOsM. Oxo-M elicited a similarly potent, but osmolarity-independent, enhancement of Rb+ influx (EC50 = 1.35 microM). However, when incubated under hypotonic conditions in which osmolarity was varied by the addition of sucrose to a fixed concentration of NaCl, basal- and Oxo-M-stimulated Rb+ influx and efflux were demonstrated to be dependent upon osmolarity. Basal- and Oxo-M-stimulated Rb+ influx (but not Rb+ efflux) were inhibited by inclusion of ouabain or furosemide. Both Rb+ influx and efflux were inhibited by removal of intracellular Ca2+ and inhibition of protein kinase C activity. In addition to Oxo-M, agonists acting at other cell surface receptors previously implicated in organic osmolyte release enhanced both Rb+ efflux and influx under hypotonic conditions. Oxo-M had no effect on cellular K+ concentration in SH-SY5Y cells under physiologically relevant reductions in osmolarity (0-15%) unless K+ influx was blocked. Thus, although receptor activation enhances the osmosensitive efflux of K+, it also stimulates K+ influx, and the latter permits retention of K+ by the cells.
Leptin is an important regulator of appetite and energy expenditure in adulthood, although its role as a nutritional signal in the control of growth and metabolism before birth is poorly understood. This study investigated the effects of leptin on growth, carbohydrate metabolism and insulin signalling in fetal sheep. Crown-rump length-measuring devices and vascular catheters were implanted in 12 sheep fetuses at 105-110 days of gestation (term 145 +/- 2 days). The fetuses were infused i.v. either with saline (0.9% NaCl; n = 6) or recombinant ovine leptin (0.5-1.0 mg kg(-1) day(-1); n = 6) for 5 days from 125 to 130 days when they were humanely killed and tissues collected. Leptin receptor mRNA and protein were expressed in fetal liver, skeletal muscle and perirenal adipose tissue. Throughout infusion, plasma leptin in the leptin-infused fetuses was 3- to 5-fold higher than in the saline-infused fetuses, although plasma concentrations of insulin, glucose, lactate, cortisol, catecholamines and thyroid hormones did not differ between the groups. Leptin infusion did not affect linear skeletal growth or body, placental and organ weights in utero. Hepatic glycogen content and activities of the gluconeogenic enzymes glucose-6-phosphatase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in the leptin-infused fetuses were lower than in the saline-infused fetuses by 44, 48 and 36%, respectively; however, there were no differences in hepatic glycogen synthase activity or insulin signalling protein levels. Therefore, before birth, leptin may inhibit endogenous glucose production by the fetal liver when adipose energy stores and transplacental nutrient delivery are sufficient for the metabolic needs of the fetus. These actions of leptin in utero may contribute to the development of neonatal hypoglycaemia in macrosomic babies of diabetic mothers.
Multiple investigations in vivo have shown that melatonin (MEL) has a neuroprotective effect in the treatment of spinal cord injury (SCI). This study investigates the role of MEL as an intervening agent for ameliorating Ca(2+)-mediated events, including activation of calpain, following its administration to rats sustaining experimental SCI. Calpain, a Ca(2+)-dependent neutral protease, is known to be involved in the pathogenesis of SCI. Rats were injured using a standard weight-drop method that induced a moderately severe injury (40 g.cm force) at T10. Sham controls received laminectomy only. Injured animals were given either 45 mg/kg MEL or vehicle at 15 min post-injury by intraperitoneal injection. At 48 hr post-injury, spinal cord (SC) samples were collected. Immunofluorescent labelings were used to identify calpain expression in specific cell types, such as neurons, glia, or macrophages. Combination of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) and double immunofluorescent labelings was used to identify apoptosis in specific cells in the SC. The effect of MEL on axonal damage was also investigated using antibody specific for dephosphorylated neurofilament protein (dNFP). Treatment of SCI animals with MEL attenuated calpain expression, inflammation, axonal damage (dNFP), and neuronal death, indicating that MEL provided neuroprotective effect in SCI. Further, expression and activity of calpain and caspse-3 were examined by Western blotting. The results indicated a significant decrease in expression and activity of calpain and caspse-3 in SCI animals after treatment with MEL. Taken together, this study strongly suggested that MEL could be an effective neuroprotective agent for treatment of SCI.
The neurodegenerative disorder Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly. The presence of neurofibrillary tangles, consisting of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, is one of the major neuropathologic characteristics of the disease, making this protein an attractive biomarker for AD and a possible target for therapy. Here, we describe an optimized immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry method that enables, for the first time, detailed characterization of tau in human cerebrospinal fluid. The identities of putative tau fragments were confirmed using nanoflow liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. Nineteen tryptic fragments of tau were detected, of which 16 are found in all tau isoforms while 3 represented unique tau isoforms. These results pave the way for clinical CSF studies on the tauopathies.
The majority of follow-up studies show stability of deficits after treatment in adults with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), regardless of improvement in symptomatology, and this suggests a possibly chronic dysfunction of the dorsolateral-striatal circuit. To our knowledge, this is the first study to explore the evolution of cognitive dysfunction in children and adolescents with OCD after treatment. A neuropsychological battery designed for this study was administered to 29 OCD patients aged between 7 and 18 years before and after 6 months of naturalistic treatment, and to 22 healthy subjects of similar age, sex and intellectual level. In the first assessment, the OCD group performed worse on some tests of memory, speed of information processing and executive functions, this being similar to the cognitive dysfunction described in adult patients. After treatment the cognitive profile of the OCD group was normalized, and many of the significant differences present in the first assessment disappeared. Children and adolescents did not show the stability in cognitive dysfunction described in studies with adults. Six months of effective treatment normalized cognitive performance in young patients, who showed an important response to treatment.
Serotonergic dysfunction is present in mood disorders and suicide. Brainstem 5-HT1A somatodendritic autoreceptors regulate serotonin neuron firing but studies of autoreceptor binding in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) in depressed suicides report conflicting results. We sought to determine: (1) the anatomical distribution of 5-HT1A receptor binding in the DRN in depressed suicides and psychiatrically normal controls; and (2) whether sex differences in 5-HT1A binding in the DRN contribute to differences between depressed suicides and controls. Previously collected quantitative receptor autoradiograms of [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyl)aminotetralin (3H-8-OH-DPAT) in postmortem tissue sections containing the DRN from drug-free suicide victims (n=10) and matched controls (n=10) were analyzed. Less total receptor binding (fmol/mg tissuexmm3) was observed in the entire DRN in depressed suicides compared with controls (p&lt;0.05). Group differences along the rostrocaudal extent of the DRN were observed for cross-sectional 5-HT(1A) binding (fmol/mg tissue) and receptor binding (fmol/mgxmm3, p&lt;0.05). Cross-sectional 5-HT1A DRN binding in depressed suicides compared with controls was higher rostrally and lower caudally. The differences between depressed suicides and controls were present in males and females, although females had more binding than males. Less autoreceptor binding in the DRN of depressed suicides may represent a homeostatic response to less serotonin release, increasing serotonin neuron firing. More autoreceptor binding in rostral DRN might contribute to deficient serotonin release in ventromedial prefrontal cortex by lower neuronal firing.


Group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) comprise mGluR2 (mGlu2; encoded by GRM2) and mGluR3 (mGlu3; encoded by GRM3) and modulate glutamate neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. Here we review the expression and function of mGluR3 and its involvement in schizophrenia. mGluR3 is expressed by glia and neurons in many brain regions and has a predominantly presynaptic distribution, consistent with its role as an inhibitory autoreceptor and heteroceptor. mGluR3 splice variants exist in human brain but are of unknown function. Differentiation of mGluR3 from mGluR2 has been problematic because of the lack of selective ligands and antibodies; the available data suggest particular roles for mGluR3 in long-term depression, in glial function and in neuroprotection. Some but not all studies find genetic association of GRM3 polymorphisms with psychosis, with the risk alleles also being associated with schizophrenia-related endophenotypes such as impaired cognition, cortical activation and glutamate markers. The dimeric form of mGluR3 may be reduced in the brain in schizophrenia. Finally, preclinical findings have made mGluR3 a putative therapeutic target, and now direct evidence for antipsychotic efficacy of a group II mGluR agonist has emerged from a randomised clinical trial in schizophrenia. Together these data implicate mGluR3 in aetiological, pathophysiological and pharmacotherapeutic aspects of the disorder.
There is evidence to suggest that neurotensin (NT) may enhance cognitive function. The present study, therefore, examined the role of NT in associative learning between a conditioned stimulus (CS) and an unconditioned stimulus (UCS). This was tested in a trace procedure using conditioned suppression of drinking with a noise CS and foot shock UCS. We compared the effects of an NT agonist (PD 149163, 0.25 and 1 mg/kg) with those of an NT antagonist (SR 142948A, 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg). Conditioning after drug treatment was followed by drug-free tests of associative learning. At 0.25 but not 1 mg/kg, PD 149163 selectively increased conditioning over the trace interval: there was no such increased conditioning in the 0s group. This increased conditioning over the trace is an effect that is reliably produced by dopamine (DA) agonists in the same procedure. However, dissimilar to the effects of DA agonists, conditioning to box context, was reduced under PD 149163. Doses of SR 142948A, selected on the basis of their effects in similar aversively motivated tests of latent inhibition, were without intrinsic effect in the present procedure. The dose-related dissociation between trace and contextual conditioning effects under PD 149163 is considered as cognitive enhancement.
Exposure to aversive environmental stimuli stimulates the serotonergic neurones that project to the forebrain and inhibit spontaneous activity when studied in a simple maze. This study explored the putative role of the principal 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurones that project to the hippocampus from the median raphe nucleus in this response to an aversive environment by lesioning the 5-HT fibres that project through the fornix/fimbria and cingulum bundles. The effects of the lesions were investigated in independent groups of animals tested in an enclosed four-arm maze and a more aversive elevated maze of the same dimensions composed entirely of four open arms. The rats were significantly less active in the open maze, the principal effect of maze design being observed during the first 5 min sub-trial of a 15 min trial. This response to the more aversive environment was totally abolished by the lesion. It is concluded that exposure to an explicitly aversive environment elicits a brief stimulation of the 5-HT neurones that project to the hippocampus from the median raphe nucleus and that this stimulation inhibits the initial burst of exploratory activity that is observed in animals placed in a less aversive novel environment.
Six-transmembrane (6-TM) cation channels are plasma membrane-integral components of cellular signaling pathways conserved in almost all species, including animals, plants and some kinds of prokaryotes. These channels selectively permeate cations in response to various signals. In excitable and non-excitable mammalian cells, 6-TM cation channels play fundamental roles, including the generation of action potential and its transmission, the regulation of intracellular ion concentrations, and the activation of signaling cascades by humoral or mechanical pathways. Recently, the structures of three different 6-TM-type cation channels have been determined using single-particle analysis from cryo-electron microscopy images: the voltage-sensitive sodium channel, the IP(3) receptor and the TRPC3 channel. The basic structure of the molecules is similar: a bell-like shape comprising a relatively small extracellular (or luminal) domain, a protein-dense transmembrane domain and an expanded cytoplasmic domain. However, in detail, the cytoplasmic architectures are different from one another and are diversely evolved to their specific physiological functions.


Previous studies have suggested that coxsackievirus B (CVB) activates CD8(+) T cells in vivo, but the extent of this activation and the antigen specificity of the CD8(+) T cells remain uncertain. Furthermore, CVB-induced CD4(+) T-cell responses have not been carefully investigated. Herein, we evaluate CD8(+) and CD4(+) T-cell responses both in a secondary lymphoid organ (spleen) and in peripheral tissues (heart and pancreas), using a recombinant CVB3 (rCVB3.6) that encodes well-characterized CD8(+) and CD4(+) T-cell epitopes. Despite reaching high levels in vivo, rCVB3.6 failed to trigger a marked expansion of CD8(+) or CD4(+) T cells, and T-cell activation was surprisingly limited. Furthermore, epitope-specific effector functions could not be detected using highly sensitive in vivo and ex vivo assays. Moreover, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I tetramer analysis indicated that our inability to detect CVB3-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses could not be explained by the cells being dysfunctional. In contrast to nave T cells, epitope-specific memory CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells proliferated markedly, indicating that both of the rCVB3.6-encoded epitopes were presented by their respective MHC molecules in vivo. These data are consistent with the observation that several CVB3 proteins can limit the presentation of viral epitopes on the surface of infected cells and suggest that the level of MHC/peptide complex is sufficient to trigger memory but not nave T cells. Finally, our findings have implications for the biological significance of cross-priming, a process thought by some to be important for the induction of antiviral CD8(+) T-cell responses.


Infections can act as environmental triggers inducing or promoting systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in genetically predisposed individuals. The aim of the present study was to compare the titres of antibodies (Abs) to infectious agents with neuropsychiatric (NPSLE) clinical manifestations. The sera of 260 individuals (120 patients with SLE and 140 geographic controls) were evaluated for the titres of Epstein bar virus (EBV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), toxoplasma, rubella and syphilis Abs using the BioPlex 2200 Multiplexed Immunoassay method (BioRad) and by the ELISA method for Helicobacter pylori and Hepatitis B core Ag. All BioPlex 2200 kits used were in developmental stages. Data analysis was performed using SPSS 9.0 statistical analysis software (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA, 1999). Correlation analysis indicated that rubella IgM Ab titres were marginally, positively associated with psychosis (P = 0.09). No other associations were detected between the 17 infectious Abs and five NP manifestations. When the positivity cut-off for anti-rubella IgM Abs was set at three standard deviations above normal, three positive subjects were identified: one patient with psychosis and one with depression, for a total NPSLE prevalence of 33.3%. On the contrary, the prevalence of NPSLE in the remaining subjects was 6.5%. Marginally significant correlations between elevated titres of rubella IgM Ab with psychosis and depression were found. Although this nearly 5-fold increase is not statistically significant, it appears that in a larger sample size, significance would be reached. This is the first study reported that examined the correlation of NPSLE manifestations with anti-infectious Abs.
The choice of the number (N) and orientation of diffusion sampling gradients required to measure accurately the water diffusion tensor remains contentious. Monte Carlo studies have suggested that between 20 and 30 uniformly distributed sampling orientations are required to provide robust estimates of water diffusions parameters. These simulations have not, however, taken into account what effect random subject motion, specifically rotation, might have on optimised gradient schemes, a problem which is especially relevant to clinical diffusion tensor MRI (DT-MRI). Here this question is investigated using Monte Carlo simulations of icosahedral sampling schemes and in vivo data. These polyhedra-based schemes, which have the advantage that large N can be created from optimised subsets of smaller N, appear to be ideal for the study of restless subjects since if scanning needs to be prematurely terminated it should be possible to identify a subset of images that have been acquired with a near optimised sampling scheme. The simulations and in vivo data show that as N increases, the rotational variance of fractional anisotropy (FA) estimates becomes progressively less dependent on the magnitude of subject rotation (alpha), while higher FA values are progressively underestimated as alpha increases. These data indicate that for large subject rotations the B-matrix should be recalculated to provide accurate diffusion anisotropy information.
Brain energy metabolism is increased during postnatal development and diminished in neurodegenerative diseases linked to senescence. The objective of this study was to determine if these conditions could involve postnatal or senescence-related shifts in activity or expression of dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH), a key mitochondrial oxidoreductase. Rats ranging from 10 to 60 days of age were used in studies of postnatal development, whereas rats aged 5 or 30 months were used in the aging studies. The expression of DLDH was determined by Western blot analysis using anti-DLDH antibodies and DLDH diaphorase activity was measured by an in-gel activity staining method using nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT)/NADH. Activity of DLDH dehydrogenase was measured as NAD+ oxidation of dihydrolipoamide. When these measures were considered in separate groups of 10-, 20-, 30-, or 60-day-old rats, all three showed an increase between 10 and 20 days of age. However, dehydrogenase activity of DLDH showed a further, progressive increase from 20 days to adulthood, in the absence of any further change in DLDH expression or diaphorase activity. No age-related decline in DLDH activity or expression was evident over the period from 5 to 30 months of age. Moreover, aging did not render DLDH more susceptible to oxidative inactivation by mitochondria-generated reactive oxygen species (ROS). Taken together, results of the present study indicate that (1) brain DLDH expression and activity undergo independent postnatal maturational increases; (2) senescence does not confer any detectable change in the activity of DLDH or its susceptibility to inactivation by mitochondrial oxidative stress.



Catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) degrades catecholamines and estrogens, both of which are of known importance for cardiovascular risk factors such as obesity and hypertension. The gene coding for COMT contains a val158-met polymorphism that exerts a considerable influence on enzymatic activity. We hypothesized that this polymorphism might influence risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Deoxyribonucleic acid samples and data regarding blood pressure and anthropometry were collected from 240 Swedish men, all 51 years old. Subjects homozygous for the low-activity allele (met) displayed higher blood pressure, heart rate, waist-to-hip ratio, and abdominal sagittal diameter as compared with heterozygous subjects, who in turn displayed higher blood pressure, heart rate, waist-to-hip ratio, and abdominal sagittal diameter than subjects homozygous for the high-activity allele (val). All measured variables were significantly correlated; however, the associations between COMT val158-met and cardiovascular variables, and the association between COMT val158-met and anthropometry, respectively, were partly independent of each other, as revealed by multiple linear regression.
Following traumatic brain injury, uncontrollable intracranial hypertension remains the most frequent cause of death. Despite general agreement on the deleterious effects of elevated intracranial pressure (ICP), however, the evidence supporting the use of ICP monitoring has recently been questioned. The aim of this review was to evaluate the pros and cons of ICP monitoring and to discuss the hypothetical desirability and feasibility of a trial testing the benefits of ICP monitoring.
In neurons, many different RNAs are targeted to dendrites where local expression of the encoded proteins mediates synaptic plasticity during learning and memory. It is not known whether each RNA follows a separate trafficking pathway or whether multiple RNAs are targeted to dendrites by the same pathway. Here, we show that RNAs encoding alpha calcium calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, neurogranin, and activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein are coassembled into the same RNA granules and targeted to dendrites by the same cis/trans-determinants (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein [hnRNP] A2 response element and hnRNP A2) that mediate dendritic targeting of myelin basic protein RNA by the A2 pathway in oligodendrocytes. Multiplexed dendritic targeting of different RNAs by the same pathway represents a new organizing principle for coordinating gene expression at the synapse.
The antiepileptic valproate (VPA) is widely used in the treatment of bipolar disorder, although the mechanism of its action in the disorder is unclear. We show here that VPA inhibits both inositol phosphate and diacylglycerol (DAG) signaling in Caenorhabditis elegans. VPA disrupts two behaviors regulated by the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)): defecation and ovulation. VPA also inhibits two activities regulated by DAG signaling: acetylcholine release and egg laying. The effects of VPA on DAG signaling are relieved by phorbol ester, a DAG analogue, suggesting that VPA acts to inhibit DAG production. VPA reduces levels of DAG and inositol-1-phosphate, but phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) is slightly increased, suggesting that phospholipase C-mediated hydrolysis of PIP(2) to form DAG and IP(3) is defective in the presence of VPA.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a mediator of brain injury induced by ischemia, trauma, and chronic neurodegenerative disease. IL-1 also has a protective role by preventing neuronal cell death from glutamate neurotoxicity. However, the cellular mechanisms of IL-1 action remain unresolved. In the mammalian retina, glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) is a Na(+)-dependent, major glutamate transporter localized to Mller glial cells, and loss of GLAST leads to glaucomatous retinal degeneration (T. Harada, C. Harada, K. Nakamura, H. A. Quah, A. Okumura, K. Namekata, T. Saeki, M. Aihara, H. Yoshida, A. Mitani, and K. Tanaka, J. Clin. Investig. 117:1763-1770, 2007). We show here that IL-1 increases glutamate uptake in Mller cells by a mechanism that involves increased membrane Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase localization, required for counteracting the Na(+)-glutamate cotransport. IL-1 activated the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/capase 11 pathway, which destabilizes the actin cytoskeleton allowing Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase membrane redistribution. Furthermore, pretreatment with IL-1 protected retinal neurons from glutamate neurotoxicity through p38 MAPK signaling. Our observations suggested that IL-1 acts as a potential neuroprotective agent by modulating the functions of the glia-neuron network.
IGFs are required for normal prenatal and postnatal growth. Although actions of IGFs can be modulated by a family of IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs) in vitro, these studies have identified a complicated pattern of stimulatory and inhibitory IGFBP effects, so that understanding relevant aspects of IGFBP action in vivo has been limited. Here we have produced a null mutation of one specific IGFBP, IGFBP-4, which is coexpressed with IGF-II early in development. Surprisingly, mutation of IGFBP-4, believed from in vitro studies to be exclusively inhibitory, leads to a prenatal growth deficit that is apparent from the time that the IGF-II growth deficit first arises, which strongly suggests that IGFBP-4 is required for optimal IGF-II-promoted growth during fetal development. Mice encoding a mutant IGFBP-4 protease (pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A), which facilitates IGF-II release from an inactive IGF-II/IGFBP-4 complex in vitro, are even smaller than IGFBP-4 mutant mice. However, the more modest IGFBP-4 growth deficit is completely restored in double IGFBP-4/pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A-deficient mice. Taken together these results indicate not only that IGFBP-4 functions as a local reservoir to optimize IGF-II actions needed for normal embryogenesis, but also establish that IGFBP-4 proteolysis is required to activate most, if not all, IGF-II mediated growth-promoting activity.
Mitochondrial disease confirmation and establishment of a specific molecular diagnosis requires extensive clinical and laboratory evaluation. Dual genome origins of mitochondrial disease, multi-organ system manifestations, and an ever increasing spectrum of recognized phenotypes represent the main diagnostic challenges. To overcome these obstacles, compiling information from a variety of diagnostic laboratory modalities can often provide sufficient evidence to establish an etiology. These include blood and tissue histochemical and analyte measurements, neuroimaging, provocative testing, enzymatic assays of tissue samples and cultured cells, as well as DNA analysis. As interpretation of results from these multifaceted investigations can become quite complex, the Diagnostic Committee of the Mitochondrial Medicine Society developed this review to provide an overview of currently available and emerging methodologies for the diagnosis of primary mitochondrial disease, with a focus on disorders characterized by impairment of oxidative phosphorylation. The aim of this work is to facilitate the diagnosis of mitochondrial disease by geneticists, neurologists, and other metabolic specialists who face the challenge of evaluating patients of all ages with suspected mitochondrial disease.
AMPA receptors (AMPAR) mediate the majority of fast excitatory neurotransmission in the central nervous system (CNS). Transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins (TARPs) have been identified as a novel family of proteins which act as auxiliary subunits of AMPARs to modulate AMPAR trafficking and function. The trafficking of AMPARs to regulate the number of receptors at the synapse plays a key role in various forms of synaptic plasticity, including long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). Expression of the prototypical TARP, stargazin/TARPgamma2, is ablated in the stargazer mutant mouse, an animal model of absence epilepsy and cerebellar ataxia. Studies on the stargazer mutant mouse have revealed that failure to express TARPgamma2 has widespread effects on the balance of expression of both excitatory (AMPAR) and inhibitory receptors (GABA(A) receptors, GABAR). The understanding of TARP function has implications for the future development of AMPAR potentiators, which have been shown to have therapeutic potential in both psychological and neurological disorders such as schizophrenia, depression and Parkinson's disease.
The 5-HT(3) and GABA(A) receptors are members of the Cys-loop family of neurotransmitter-gated ion channels that also include receptors for glycine and acetylcholine. The 5-HT(3) and acetylcholine receptors (cationic ion channels) and the GABA(A) and glycine receptors (anionic ion channels) generally depolarize or hyperpolarize, respectively, the neuronal membrane. Within the amino-terminal extracellular region, all members of this family exhibit a similar architecture of ligand binding domains and a number of key residues are completely conserved. The molecular characterization of their ligand binding and gating characteristics has benefited from the existence of a large repertoire of individual subunits that contribute to the pentameric ion channel. Although differences do exist, advances in our knowledge of one member offers valuable insight into the family as a whole. Each member of the Cys-loop receptors (and all other multimeric ion channels) must face the same challenges: How to assemble individual subunits into an ion channel and which subunits to use? How are assembled receptors distinguished from those that are unassembled or misassembled, then exported from the endoplasmic reticulum and delivered to the cell surface? How are they targeted to, and anchored at synaptic and extrasynaptic sites? How and when are they to be removed from these sites to provide long-term regulation of neuronal activity? In this review, we summarize our current knowledge for the 5-HT(3) and GABA(A) receptors that have provided complementary information and helped us build an overall picture of how receptor biogenesis and trafficking occurs.
Increased deposition of amyloid beta (Abeta) is characteristic for normal aging and human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1)-associated alterations of the central nervous system. In addition, both Abeta and HIV-1 are known to induce cellular oxidative stress and disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Therefore, we hypothesize that Abeta and HIV-1 protein Tat can potentiate their proinflammatory effects at the brain endothelium level. To address this hypothesis, we studied promoter activity of three proinflammatory genes in an in vitro BBB model of human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMEC) cocultured with a human astrocyte cell line producing Tat (SVGA-Tat cells) and exposed to Abeta. Treatment of HBMEC with Abeta(1-40) in the presence of SVGA-Tat cells resulted in a significant up-regulation of E-selectin, CC chemokine ligand-2, and interleukin-6 promoter activities and protein levels compared with the individual effects of Abeta or Tat. In addition, Abeta markedly amplified E-selectin promoter activity in HBMEC cocultured with HIV-1-infected Jurkat T cells. Simvastatin, the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, effectively blocked proinflammatory reactions induced by Abeta in cocultures with SVGA-Tat cells or with HIV-1-infected Jurkat cells. The present study indicates that a combined exposure to Abeta and Tat or HIV-1 can synergistically potentiate the expression of inflammatory genes in brain endothelial cells. In addition, simvastatin may provide a beneficial influence by reducing these effects at the BBB level.
Treatment-resistant depression continues to pose a major medical challenge, as up to one-third of patients with major depressive disorder fail to have an adequate response to standard pharmacotherapies. An improved understanding of the complex circuitry underlying depressive disorders has fostered an explosion in the development of new, nonpharmacological approaches. Each of these treatments seeks to restore normal brain activity via electrical or magnetic stimulation. In this article, the authors discuss the ongoing evolution of neurostimulatory treatments for treatment-resistant depression, reviewing the methods, efficacy, and current research on electroconvulsive therapy, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, magnetic seizure therapy, focal electrically administered stimulated seizure therapy, transcranial direct current stimulation, chronic epidural cortical stimulation, and vagus nerve stimulation. Special attention is given to deep brain stimulation, the most focally targeted approach. The history, purported mechanisms of action, and current research are outlined in detail. Although deep brain stimulation is the most invasive of the neurostimulatory treatments developed to date, it may hold significant promise in alleviating symptoms and improving the quality of life for patients with the most severe and disabling mood disorders.
Stem cells offer the potential for regeneration of lost tissue in neurological disease, including multiple sclerosis (MS). Their development in vitro and their use in vivo in animal models of degenerative neurological disease and recent first efforts in human clinical trials were the topics of a recent international meeting sponsored by the Multiple Sclerosis International Federation and the National Multiple Sclerosis Society on &quot;Stem Cells &amp; MS: Prospects and Strategies&quot; Participants reviewed the current state of knowledge about the potential use of stem and progenitor cells in MS and other degenerative neurological disorders and outlined a series of urgent fundamental and applied clinical research priorities that should allow the potential of regeneration of damaged tissue in MS to be assessed and pursued.
Two subjects with Parkinson's disease who had long-term survival of transplanted fetal mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons (11-16 years) developed alpha-synuclein-positive Lewy bodies in grafted neurons. Our observation has key implications for understanding Parkinson's pathogenesis by providing the first evidence, to our knowledge, that the disease can propagate from host to graft cells. However, available data suggest that the majority of grafted cells are functionally unimpaired after a decade, and recipients can still experience long-term symptomatic relief.


The rod pigment, rhodopsin, shows spontaneous isomerization activity. This quantal noise produces a dark light of approximately 0.01 photons s(-1) rod(-1) in human, setting the threshold for rod vision. The spontaneous isomerization activity of human cone pigments has long remained a mystery because the effect of a single isomerized pigment molecule in cones, unlike that in rods, is small and beyond measurement. We have now overcome this problem by expressing human red cone pigment transgenically in mouse rods in order to exploit their large single-photon response, especially after genetic removal of a key negative-feedback regulation. Extrapolating the measured quantal noise of transgenic cone pigment to native human red cones, we obtained a dark rate of approximately 10 false events s(-1) cone(-1), almost 10(3)-fold lower than the overall dark transduction noise previously reported in primate cones. Our measurements provide a rationale for why mammalian red, green and blue cones have comparable sensitivities, unlike their amphibian counterparts.
Autism is a heterogeneous syndrome defined by impairments in three core domains: social interaction, language and range of interests. Recent work has led to the identification of several autism susceptibility genes and an increased appreciation of the contribution of de novo and inherited copy number variation. Promising strategies are also being applied to identify common genetic risk variants. Systems biology approaches, including array-based expression profiling, are poised to provide additional insights into this group of disorders, in which heterogeneity, both genetic and phenotypic, is emerging as a dominant theme.
How do I choose a mentor? How do I decide what field of neuroscience to work in? Should I consider doing research in industry? Most students and postdoctoral researchers aiming for a successful career in neuroscience ask themselves these questions. In this article, Nature Reviews Neuroscience asks four successful neuroscientists for their thoughts on the factors one should consider when making these decisions. We hope that this Viewpoint will serve as a useful resource for junior neuroscientists who have to make important and sometimes difficult decisions that might have long-lasting consequences for their careers.
GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) type A receptors (GABA(A)Rs) mediate most fast synaptic inhibition in the mammalian brain, controlling activity at both the network and the cellular levels. The diverse functions of GABA in the CNS are matched not just by the heterogeneity of GABA(A)Rs, but also by the complex trafficking mechanisms and protein-protein interactions that generate and maintain an appropriate receptor cell-surface localization. In this Review, we discuss recent progress in our understanding of the dynamic regulation of GABA(A)R composition, trafficking to and from the neuronal surface, and lateral movement of receptors between synaptic and extrasynaptic locations. Finally, we highlight a number of neurological disorders, including epilepsy and schizophrenia, in which alterations in GABA(A)R trafficking occur.

The problem of controlling locomotion is an area in which neuroscience and robotics can fruitfully interact. In this article, I will review research carried out on locomotor central pattern generators (CPGs), i.e. neural circuits capable of producing coordinated patterns of high-dimensional rhythmic output signals while receiving only simple, low-dimensional, input signals. The review will first cover neurobiological observations concerning locomotor CPGs and their numerical modelling, with a special focus on vertebrates. It will then cover how CPG models implemented as neural networks or systems of coupled oscillators can be used in robotics for controlling the locomotion of articulated robots. The review also presents how robots can be used as scientific tools to obtain a better understanding of the functioning of biological CPGs. Finally, various methods for designing CPGs to control specific modes of locomotion will be briefly reviewed. In this process, I will discuss different types of CPG models, the pros and cons of using CPGs with robots, and the pros and cons of using robots as scientific tools. Open research topics both in biology and in robotics will also be discussed.
In order to respond appropriately to environmental stimuli, organisms must integrate over time spatiotemporal signals that reflect object motion and self-movement. One possible mechanism to achieve this spatiotemporal transformation is to delay or lag neural responses. This paper reviews our recent modeling work testing the sufficiency of delayed responses in the nervous system in two different behavioral tasks: (1) Categorizing spatiotemporal tactile cues with thalamic &quot;lag&quot; cells and downstream coincidence detectors, and (2) Predictive motor control was achieved by the cerebellum through a delayed eligibility trace rule at cerebellar synapses. Since the timing of these neural signals must closely match real-world dynamics, we tested these ideas using the brain based device (BBD) approach in which a simulated nervous system is embodied in a robotic device. In both tasks, biologically inspired neural simulations with delayed neural responses were critical for successful behavior by the device.
The current paper examines how compositional structures can self-organize in given neuro-dynamical systems when robot agents are forced to learn multiple goal-directed behaviors simultaneously. Firstly, we propose a basic model accounting for the roles of parietal-premotor interactions for representing skills for goal-directed behaviors. The basic model had been implemented in a set of robotics experiments employing different neural network architectures. The comparative reviews among those experimental results address the issues of local vs distributed representations in representing behavior and the effectiveness of level structures associated with different sensory-motor articulation mechanisms. It is concluded that the compositional structures can be acquired &quot;organically&quot; by achieving generalization in learning and by capturing the contextual nature of skilled behaviors under specific conditions. Furthermore, the paper discusses possible feedback for empirical neuroscience studies in the future.
Action selection, the problem of choosing what to do next, is central to any autonomous agent architecture. We use here a multi-disciplinary approach at the convergence of neuroscience, dynamical system theory and autonomous robotics, in order to propose an efficient action selection mechanism based on a new model of the basal ganglia. We first describe new developments of contraction theory regarding locally projected dynamical systems. We exploit these results to design a stable computational model of the cortico-baso-thalamo-cortical loops. Based on recent anatomical data, we include usually neglected neural projections, which participate in performing accurate selection. Finally, the efficiency of this model as an autonomous robot action selection mechanism is assessed in a standard survival task. The model exhibits valuable dithering avoidance and energy-saving properties, when compared with a simple if-then-else decision rule.
In this paper we present ongoing work on how to incorporate human motion models into the design of a high performance teleoperation platform. A short description of human motion models used for ball-catching is followed by a more detailed study of a teleoperation platform on which to conduct experiments. Also, a pilot study using minimum jerk theory to explain user input behavior in teleoperated catching is presented.
Our study aims at the design and implementation of a general controller for quadruped locomotion, allowing the robot to use the whole range of quadrupedal gaits (i.e. from low speed walking to fast running). A general legged locomotion controller must integrate both posture control and rhythmic motion control and have the ability to shift continuously from one control method to the other according to locomotion speed. We are developing such a general quadrupedal locomotion controller by using a neural model involving a CPG (Central Pattern Generator) utilizing ground reaction force sensory feedback. We used a biologically faithful musculoskeletal model with a spine and hind legs, and computationally simulated stable stepping motion at various speeds using the neuro-mechanical system combining the neural controller and the musculoskeletal model. We compared the changes of the most important locomotion characteristics (stepping period, duty ratio and support length) according to speed in our simulations with the data on real cat walking. We found similar tendencies for all of them. In particular, the swing period was approximately constant while the stance period decreased with speed, resulting in a decreasing stepping period and duty ratio. Moreover, the support length increased with speed due to the posterior extreme position that shifted progressively caudally, while the anterior extreme position was approximately constant. This indicates that we succeeded in reproducing to some extent the motion of a cat from the kinematical point of view, even though we used a 2D bipedal model. We expect that such computational models will become essential tools for legged locomotion neuroscience in the future.
At the crossing between motor control neuroscience and robotics system theory, the paper presents a rhythmic experiment that is amenable both to handy laboratory implementation and simple mathematical modeling. The experiment is based on an impact juggling task, requiring the coordination of two upper-limb effectors and some phase-locking with the trajectories of one or several juggled objects. We describe the experiment, its implementation and the mathematical model used for the analysis. Our underlying research focuses on the role of sensory feedback in rhythmic tasks. In a robotic implementation of our experiment, we study the minimum feedback that is required to achieve robust control. A limited source of feedback, measuring only the impact times, is shown to give promising results. A second field of investigation concerns the human behavior in the same impact juggling task. We study how a variation of the tempo induces a transition between two distinct control strategies with different sensory feedback requirements. Analogies and differences between the robotic and human behaviors are obviously of high relevance in such a flexible setup.
Murine oligodendrocytes express the gap junction (GJ) proteins connexin32 (Cx32), Cx47, and Cx29. CNS phenotypes in patients with X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease may be caused by dominant effects of Cx32 mutations on other connexins. Here we examined the expression of Cx31.3 (the human ortholog of murine Cx29) in human brain and its relation to the other oligodendrocyte GJ proteins Cx32 and Cx47. Furthermore, we investigated in vitro whether Cx32 mutants with CNS manifestations affect the expression and function of Cx31.3. Cx31.3 was localized mostly in the gray matter along small myelinated fibers similar to Cx29 in rodent brain and was co-expressed with Cx32 in a subset of human oligodendrocytes. In HeLa cells Cx31.3 was localized at the cell membrane and appeared to form hemichannels but no GJs. Cx32 mutants with CNS manifestations were retained intracellularly, but did not alter the cellular localization or function of co-expressed Cx31.3. Thus, Cx31.3 shares many characteristics with its ortholog Cx29. Cx32 mutants with CNS phenotypes do not affect the trafficking or function of Cx31.3, and may have other toxic effects in oligodendrocytes.
Prenatal choline supplementation (SUP) protects adult rats against spatial memory deficits observed after excitotoxin-induced status epilepticus (SE). To examine the mechanism underlying this neuroprotection, we determined the effects of SUP on a variety of hippocampal markers known to change in response to SE and thought to underlie ensuing cognitive deficits. Adult offspring from rat dams that received either a control or SUP diet on embryonic days 12-17 were administered saline or kainic acid (i.p.) to induce SE and were euthanized 16 days later. SUP markedly attenuated seizure-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration, dentate cell proliferation, and hippocampal GFAP mRNA expression levels, prevented the loss of hippocampal GAD65 protein and mRNA expression, and altered growth factor expression patterns. SUP also enhanced pre-seizure hippocampal levels of BDNF, NGF, and IGF-1, which may confer a neuroprotective hippocampal microenvironment that dampens the neuropathological response to and/or helps facilitate recovery from SE to protect cognitive function.
Soluble A beta-oligomers are currently discussed as the major causative species for the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Consequently, the beta-amyloid cascade hypothesis was extended by A beta-oligomers and their central neuropathogenic role in AD. However, the molecular structure of A beta-oligomers and their relation to amyloid fibril formation remains elusive. Previously we demonstrated that incubation of A beta(1-42) with SDS or fatty acids induces the formation of a homogeneous globular A beta-oligomer termed A beta-globulomer. In this study we investigated the role of A beta-globulomers in the aggregation pathway of A beta-peptide. We used in vitro assays such as thioflavin-T binding and aggregation inhibitors like Congo red to reveal that A beta-peptide in its A beta-globulomer conformation is a structural entity which is independent from amyloid fibril formation. In addition, cellular Alzheimer's-like plaque forming assays show the resistance of A beta-globulomers to deposition as amyloid plaques. We hypothesize that a conformational switch of A beta is decisive for either fibril formation or alternatively and independently A beta-globulomer formation.
Since Src kinase inhibitors decrease brain injury produced by intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and thrombin is activated following ICH, this study determined whether Src kinase inhibitors decrease thrombin-induced brain injury. Thrombin injections into adult rat striatum produced focal infarction and motor deficits. The Src kinase inhibitor PP2 decreased thrombin-induced Src activation, infarction in striatum and motor deficits in vivo. Thrombin applied to cultured post-mitotic striatal neurons caused: injury to axons and dendrites; many TUNEL positive neuronal nuclei; and re-entry into the cell cycle as manifested by cyclin D1 expression, induction of several other cell cycle genes and cyclin-dependent kinase 4 activation. PP2 dose-dependently attenuated thrombin-induced injury to the cultured neurons; and attenuated thrombin-induced neuronal cell cycle re-entry. These results are consistent with the hypotheses that Src kinase inhibitors decrease injury produced by ICH by decreasing thrombin activation of Src kinases and, at least in part, by decreasing Src induced cell cycle re-entry.
Information on the difference in cognitive function between laboratory and wild-caught mice is anecdotal and this question has not been systematically studied. Moreover, studying a wild-caught mouse strain per se may add information to the repertoire of mouse strains available. We aimed to study spatial memory in a wild mouse strain (Apodemus sylvaticus, AS) as compared to two individual laboratory mouse strains. Male AS (n=20), CD1 (n=19) and C57BL/6J mice (n=19), 12-14 weeks old, were used in the experiments. The Morris water maze (MWM) was used for determination of spatial memory and time spent in the target quadrant at time points 5 (D5) and 12 days (D12) was evaluated. During the acquisition phase latency to reach the platform and path length to reach the platform was evaluated. Following four training days on day 5 (D5), time spent in the target quadrant was highest in AS&gt;CD1&gt;C57BL/6J (P&lt;0.006). On day 12 (D12), time spent in the target quadrant was significantly higher in AS than in both other strains (P&lt;0.001). All animals learned the task and during the acquisition phase, latency to reach the platform as well as path length decreased significantly in AS. It is concluded that the AS is the most suitable strain for the evaluation of spatial memory in the MWM and is presenting with memory retention superior to laboratory mouse strains CD1 and C57BL/6J.
Interactions between neurosteroidogenesis and proteins involved in age-related diseases are unknown. High concentrations of amyloid-beta (A beta) peptides induce plaques in Alzheimer's disease but several studies demonstrated that physiological or non-toxic doses are neuroprotective. We compared the effects of non-toxic and toxic concentrations of A beta 1-42 and A beta 25-35 on neurosteroidogenesis in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Viability assays revealed that nanomolar doses of A beta are devoid of cytotoxicity while 12 microM induced cell death. Pulse-chase, high-performance liquid chromatography and flow-scintillation analyses showed that non-toxic A beta 1-42 concentrations, acting selectively, decreased [3H]progesterone but increased [3H]estradiol production from the precursor [3H]pregnenolone. Non-toxic A beta 25-35 doses reduced [3H]progesterone formation but had no effect on [3H]estradiol biosynthesis. At 12 microM, both A beta 1-42 and A beta 25-35 inhibited [3H]progesterone formation but only A beta 1-42 reduced [3H]estradiol production. The results demonstrate a selective and amino-acid sequence-dependent action of A beta on neurosteroidogenesis. The fact that non-toxic A beta 1-42 doses stimulated neuroprotective-neurosteroid estradiol synthesis, which is inhibited by high A beta 1-42 doses, may explain A beta 1-42 ability to exert either protective or deleterious effects on nerve cells.
Information on the change in extracellular ascorbic acid (AA) during the acute period of cerebral ischemia is of great importance in the early therapeutic intervention of the cerebral ischemic injury since AA is known to be involved into most kinds of neurochemical changes in the cerebral ischemia. This study describes a fast and efficient method through integration of in vivo microdialysis with on-line electrochemical detection for continuous monitoring cerebral AA, allowing comparative study of the change in the extracellular AA level in different brain ischemia/reperfusion models. The method exhibits a high specificity for AA measurements, bearing a good tolerance against the fluctuation in the brain anoxia and acidity induced by cerebral ischemia/reperfusion. In the global two-vessel occlusion (2-VO) ischemia model, the striatum AA did not change with statistic significance until 60 min after occlusion and was decreased to be 91+/-3% (n=5, P&lt;0.05) of the basal level (8.05+/-0.23 microM) at the time point of 60 min after occlusion. In the 2-VO ischemia/reperfusion model, AA remained unchanged during the 10 min of ischemia, and was sharply increased to be 267+/-74% (n=5, P&lt;0.05) of the basal level after the initial 15 min of reperfusion, and then decreased to be 122+/-33% (n=5, P&lt;0.05) of the basal level after 50 min of reperfusion. Extracellular AA was largely increased after 5 min of left middle cerebral artery occlusion (LMCAO) and was then gradually increased to be 257+/-49% (n=5, P&lt;0.05) of the basal level after 60 min of LMCAO ischemia. In the LMCAO ischemia/reperfusion model, AA was greatly increased during 10 min of ischemia and then gradually increased to be 309+/-69% (n=5, P&lt;0.05) of the basal level after the consecutive 50 min of reperfusion. The results demonstrated here may be useful for understanding the neurochemical processes in the acute period of cerebral ischemia and could thus be important for neuroprotective therapeutics for cerebral ischemic injury.
Noradrenergic and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) neuronal systems within the brain have been implicated in stress and anxiety. Synaptic release of cerebral norepinephrine (NE) is increased during stress, and following intracerebral CRF administration. Benzodiazepines are commonly used anxiolytic drugs but information on their effects on the stress- and CRF-related release of NE is limited. We have used in vivo microdialysis to test the effects of the benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide (CDP) on the noradrenergic responses to footshock and intracerebroventricular CRF in the medial hypothalamus and the medial prefrontal cortex (PFM) of freely moving rats. Footshock (60 x 0.1-0.2 mA shocks in 20 min) significantly increased microdialysate concentrations of NE in the first sample collected after initiating the footshock. In the hypothalamus, microdialysate NE was augmented 64% above baseline. A second footshock session (100 min after the first footshock) increased microdialysate NE to 313% of the baseline. Thus the noradrenergic responses to footshock were enhanced by preceding footshocks. CRF (100 ng) administered into the locus coeruleus (LC) almost tripled microdialysate concentrations of NE in the PFM. CDP (5mg/kg, i.p.) had no statistically significant effects on the basal dialysate concentrations of NE, but it significantly attenuated both footshock- and CRF-induced increases in dialysate NE. CDP may exert a direct inhibitory effect on the noradrenergic neurons, alter the input to LC noradrenergic neurons, or alter the ability of CRF to activate the LC noradrenergic system.
It is known that fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF1) lacking a conventional signal peptide sequence shows non-classical release independent of the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi system. Recent studies reveal that FGF1 is co-released with S100A13, a Ca2+-binding protein that acts as an extracellular cargo molecule. Although both FGF1 and S100A13 are Cu2+-binding proteins, the role of Cu2+, as well as that of Ca2+, in non-classical release, remains to be clarified. In the present study we examined the requirements of both metal ions for the interaction between these two proteins. The addition of Ca2+ significantly increased the ka value, while decreasing the KD value, for the interaction between Strep-tagII-S100A13 and GST-FGF1; both values were obtained by use of a quartz crystal microbalance, a real-time mass-measuring device. The EC50 of Ca2+ to enhance the interaction was 10.11 microM. Although the addition of Cu2+ alone had no effect, it caused a marked potentiation of the Ca2+-enhanced interaction. The EC50 of Cu2+ for the potentiation was 50.45 nM. On the other hand, the EC50 of Ca2+ and the KD values were decreased from 11.69 to 2.07 microM and 0.75 to 0.38 x 10(-7)M, respectively, by the addition of 200 nM Cu2+. The Cu2+-induced potentiation of this interaction was abolished by amlexanox, which inhibits non-classical release of FGF1. All of these findings suggest that synergistic effects of Ca2+ and Cu2+ play a key role in the interaction between FGF1 and S100A13, which is the initial step in non-classical release of FGF1.
The neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) is neuroprotective against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism. Monoamine oxidase (MAO)-B inhibitory action partially contributes to this effect. We tested the hypothesis that 7-NI could be a powerful hydroxyl radical (OH) scavenger, and interferes with oxidative stress caused by MPTP. We measured OH, reduced glutathione (GSH), as well as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities in the nucleus caudatus putamen and substantia nigra of Balb/c mice following MPTP and/or 7-NI administration. The nNOS inhibitor caused dose-dependent inhibition in the production of OH in (i) Fenton-like reaction employing ferrous citrate in a cell-free system in test tubes, (ii) in isolated mitochondrial preparation in presence of MPP+, and (iii) in the striatum of mice systemically treated with MPTP. An MPTP-induced depletion of GSH in both the nuclei was blocked by 7-NI, which was dose-dependent (10-50mg/kg), but independent of MAO-B inhibition. The nNOS-mediated recovery of GSH paralleled attenuation of MPTP-induced depletion of striatal dopamine. MPTP-induced increase in the activities of striatal or nigral SOD and catalase were significantly attenuated by 7-NI treatment. These results suggest potent antioxidant action of 7-NI in its neuroprotective effects against MPTP-induced neurotoxicity.
Nitric oxide (NO) synthase-2 (NOS-2), a key source of NO at sites of neuroinflammation, is induced in astrocyte cultures treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus interferon-gamma (IFN gamma). A recent study examining the regulation of astrocytic NOS-2 expression demonstrated that transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF beta 1) potentiated LPS plus IFN gamma-induced NOS-2 expression via expansion of the pool of astrocytes that express NOS-2. Results in the current report indicate that this population-based mechanism of increasing NOS-2 expression is not restricted to TGF beta 1, since it also accounts for the potentiation of NO production in astrocyte cultures by tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha). In contrast to TGF beta 1, which required 24h preincubation for optimal potentiation of NO production, TNF alpha was maximally effective when added concurrently with LPS plus IFN gamma. Nevertheless, under conditions that optimally potentiated NO production, both cytokines recruited similar numbers of astrocytes to express NOS-2 (% NOS-2-positive cells after LPS plus IFN gamma alone or with TNFalpha or TGF beta 1 was 9.5+/-1.2, 25.3+/-2.9, and 32.4+/-3.0, respectively). Interestingly, stimulation of astrocytes in the presence of both TGF beta 1 and TNFalpha additively increased the number of astrocytes that expressed NOS-2 protein (% NOS-2-positive cells was 61.0+/-4.2) relative to each cytokine alone. Potentiation of NO production by either TNF alpha or TGF beta 1 was not ablated by neutralizing antibodies to TGF beta 1 or TNFalpha, respectively. Thus, the two cytokines act independently to recruit separate pools of astrocytes to express NOS-2. These results are consistent with the notion that astrocytes possess an innate heterogeneity with respect to responsiveness to these cytokines.
The consumption of (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), the major polyphenolic compound found in green tea, has been associated with various neurological benefits including cognitive improvement. The physiological basis for this effect is unknown. In this study, we used synaptic transmission between the CA3 and CA1 regions (Schaffer collateral) of the mouse hippocampus to examine the effects of EGCG on neuronal plasticity. We found that the level of high frequency stimulation-evoked long-term potentiation (LTP) was significantly enhanced when hippocampal slices were pre-incubated with 10 microM EGCG for 1 h prior to the experiment. EGCG incubation also enabled hippocampal slices prepared from Ts65Dn mice, a Down syndrome mouse model deficient in LTP, to express LTP to a level comparable to the normal controls. EGCG treatment did not alter the degree of pair-pulse inhibition; therefore, the enhancement effect of EGCG is unlikely to involve the attenuation of this inhibitory mechanism.
Some derivatives more lipophylic than creatine, thus theoretically being capable to better cross the blood-brain barrier, were studied for their protective effect in mouse hippocampal slices. We found that N-amidino-piperidine is harmful to brain tissue, and that phosphocreatine is ineffective. Creatine, creatine-Mg-complex (acetate) and phosphocreatine-Mg-complex (acetate) increased the latency to population spike disappearance during anoxia. Creatine and creatine-Mg-complex (acetate) also increased the latency of anoxic depolarization, while the delay induced by phosphocreatine-Mg-complex (acetate) was of borderline significance (P = 0.056). Phosphocreatine-Mg-complex (acetate) significantly reduced neuronal hyperexcitability during anoxia, an effect that no other compound (including creatine itself) showed. For all parameters except reduced hyperexcitability the effects statistically correlated with tissue levels of creatine or phosphocreatine. Summing up, exogenous phosphocreatine and N-amidino piperidine are not useful for brain protection, while chelates of both creatine and phosphocreatine do replicate some of the known protective effects of creatine. In addition, phosphocreatine-Mg-complex (acetate) also reduced neuronal hyperexcitability during anoxia.
Acetylcholine is an important excitatory neurotransmitter, which plays a crucial role in synaptic transmission. The level of acetylcholine is decreased in the early stages of Alzheimer disease (AD), the most common neurodegenerative disease. Therefore, measurement of acetylcholine in the brain may help the clinical diagnosis of AD. However, the methods used till now to detect the brain acetylcholine level are invasive, which are neither recommended nor acceptable in the clinic. Acetylcholine is synthesized from choline-containing compounds (Cho), the latter can be estimated by noninvasive proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS). To explore whether the Cho signal intensity could be used to represent the acetylcholine level in the brain, we employed (1)H MRS to detect the Cho signal, and simultaneously, we also used microdialysis and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to measure the level of acetylcholine in hippocampus, striatum, frontal cortex, and somatosensory barrel field (S1BF cortex) of rats, respectively. The results showed that the correlations between Cho signal intensity and acetylcholine level in hippocampus, striatum, frontal cortex, and S1BF cortex were, respectively, 0.823 (p = 0.044), 0.851 (p = 0.032), 0.817 (p = 0.047), and 0.822 (p = 0.045). The F-values of the regression model were, respectively, 8.404 (p = 0.044), 10.47 (p = 0.032), 8.000 (p = 0.047), and 8.326 (p = 0.045). And the derived regression equations were y = 0.67x + 1.363 (hippocampus), y = 5.398x + 6.684 (striatum), y = 0.656x + 0.564 (frontal cortex), and y = 0.394x + 1.127 (S1BF cortex), respectively (y means acetylcholine, and x means Cho). These data suggest that the Cho signal intensity observed by (1)H MRS may be used as an indicator of acetylcholine level in different brain regions of the rats.
Several studies have been suggested that long-term exposure to stress has detrimental effects on various brain functions and leads to neurodegenerative changes. However, the precise mechanism by which stress induces brain damage or neurodegenerative change is still a matter of debate. This study investigated the damage of neuronal cells involving in the expression of iNOS, NR1, and GFAP in various brain regions and characterized the change of sphingolipid metabolites as a biomarker of physiological change in serum after 3 weeks of repeated immobilization. In this report, the expression of iNOS, GFAP and NR1 in the brain of rats exposed to chronic immobilization stress was investigated. The expression of iNOS, GFAP and NR1 was elevated in the cortex and hippocampal area after 3 weeks of repeated immobilization. Immunoreactivity for GFAP and vimentin, as a marker of reactive gliosis, was also elevated in the cortex and hippocampus. The level of sphingolipids was measured in order to assess the changes in sphingolipid metabolites in the serum of rats exposed to stress. Interestingly, the level of So-1-P was increased in the plasma of rats subjected to 6-h immobilization stress than repeated immobilization. To further investigate the modulating effect of increased So-1-P in various brain regions, So-1-P was infused into the lateral cerebroventricle at a rate of 100 pmol/10 mul/h for 7 days. The expression of iNOS and NR1 was elevated in the cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum after So-1-P infusion into the cerebroventricle, while the level of GFAP was elevated in the hippocampus and striatum. Interestingly, the expression levels of iNOS, GFAP, and NR1 were increased by the direct application of So-1-P to cultured cortical cells. These results suggest that NO production via iNOS expression, the NR1 expression, the activation of astrocytes, and the elevation of So-1-P may cause neurodegenerative changes in rats subjected to chronic immobilization and that the elevation of So-1-P by stress exposure would be one of the stress signal molecules.
The accumulation of intracellular protein deposits as inclusion bodies is the common pathological hallmark of most age related neurodegenerative disorders including polyglutamine diseases. Appearances of aggregates of the misfolded mutant disease proteins suggest that the cells are unable to efficiently degrade them, and failure of clearance leads to the severe disturbances of the cellular quality control system. The quality control ubiquitin ligases are now increasingly implicated in the biology of polyglutamine diseases, Parkinson's diseases, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. Here we review the recent studies that have revealed a critical role of E3 ubiquitin ligases in understanding the pathogenesis of polyglutamine diseases.
Glutamatergic activity of hypothalamus and hippocampus of young (3 months) male albino rats having normal diet [protein (20%)-carbohydrate (68%)] was increased with the increase of age. Long-term (60 consecutive days) feeding of low protein (8%)-high carbohydrate (80%) diet (LP-HC) increased glutamatergic activity in these brain regions of young rats and decreased that in aged (18 months). On the contrary, supplementation of high protein (50%)-low carbohydrate (38%) diet (HP-LC) under similar condition decreased glutamatergic activity in those brain regions of young and increased that in aged brain regions. Thus, prolonged exposure of LP-HC diet may damage young brain; whereas, HP-LC diet under similar condition causes excitotoxicity to aged brain. Therefore, considering the present scenario in relation to metabolism and receptor activity of glutamatergic system, it may be suggested that long-term consumption of LP-HC and HP-LC diets modulate the brain regional glutamatergic activity reversibly with age.
In children with epilepsy, surgical treatment has been recognized as a valuable therapeutic option that can improve the cognitive prognosis and facilitate schooling. Most of the earlier studies focused on general intellectual outcome and behavior. However, substantial progress and new developments in the neuropsychological evaluation of epileptic children treated with surgery have been made over the past few years. Several recent studies explored language, memory, executive functions and behavior in patients undergoing surgery, taking into account cerebral maturation and plasticity processes. Neuropsychological studies have demonstrated greater functional recovery after surgery in children than in adults. Notably, there is evidence of particular reorganization processes for language dominance. Other studies demonstrate that early surgery of temporal lobe epilepsy in children is associated with better memory than in adults. Longitudinal studies are still needed to describe developmental trajectories and optimize neuropsychological rehabilitation.
The human colon serves to absorb water and electrolytes, store intraluminal contents until elimination is socially convenient, and salvage nutrients by bacterial metabolism of carbohydrates that have not been absorbed in the small intestine. The anorectum is responsible for fecal continence and defecation. This article is a broad perspective of the current status and a personal perspective of future challenges in understanding lower gastrointestinal functions in health and disease in humans.
The gastrointestinal tract serves the physiological function of digesting and absorbing nutrients from food and physically mixing and propelling these contents in an oral to anal direction. These functions require the coordinated interaction of several cell types, including enteric nerves, immune cells and smooth muscle. Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) are now recognized as another cell type that are required for the normal functioning of the gastrointestinal tract. Abnormalities in ICC numbers and networks are associated with several gastrointestinal motility disorders. This review will describe what is known about the function and role of ICC both in health and in a variety of motility disorders with a focus on unresolved issues pertaining to their role in the control of gastrointestinal motility.
Most aspects of the normal organisation and functioning of the enteric nervous system have been resolved in recent years, especially for the small and large intestines, where the ENS has essential roles in controlling bowel movement and transmucosal fluid exchange. The roles of the ENS in the esophagus are not understood, and the relative roles of intrinsic reflexes in relation to extrinsic control of the stomach require clarification. In the small intestine and colon, it needs to be understood how neural activity is orchestrated to subserve different functional outcomes, for example propulsion, mixing and retrograde movement. However, the most important future challenges are to properly understand the molecular and cellular changes that underlie enteric neuropathies, to utilise knowledge of the normal neurochemistry, pharmacology and physiology of the ENS to devise strategies to treat disorders of motility and secretion, and to develop effective therapeutic compounds. It is suggested that ion channels of enteric neurons have been under-investigated as therapeutic targets. Other future challenges lie in the identification of biomarkers for functional bowel disorders and in the use of neural stem cells for restitution of ENS function.
Although the concept of purinergic signalling arose from experiments designed to find the identity of the non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic (NANC) inhibitory neurotransmitter in the gut, it has taken many years for the more general importance of the various roles of ATP as a physiological messenger in the gut to be recognized. Firstly, vasoactive intestitial polypeptide (VIP) and later nitric oxide (NO) were considered the NANC transmitter and it was only later, after the concept of cotransmission was established, that ATP, NO and VIP were recognized as cotransmitters in NANC nerves, although the proportions vary in different gut regions. Recently, many purinoceptor subtypes have been identified on myenteric, submucosal motor, sensory and interneurons involved in synaptic neurotransmission and neuromodulation and reflex activity of several kinds, including ascending excitatory and descending inhibitory reflex pathways. Nucleotide receptors have been shown to be expressed on enteric glial cells and interstitial cells of Cajal. Purinergic mechanosensory transduction, involving release of ATP from mucosal epithelial cells during distension to stimulate subepithelial nerve endings of intrinsic and extrinsic sensory nerves to modulate peristalsis and initiate nociception respectively, is attracting current attention. Exciting new areas of interest about purinergic signalling in the gut include: involvement of purines in development, ageing and regeneration, including the role of stem cells; studies of the involvement of nucleotides in the activity of the gut of invertebrates and lower vertebrates; and the pathophysiology of enteric purinergic signalling in diseases including irritable bowel syndrome, postoperative ileus, oesophageal reflux, constipation, diarrhoea, diabetes, Chaga's and Hirschprung's disease.
On contact with the mucosa, heat stable (STa) enterotoxin from Escherichia coli reduces fluid absorption in vivo in the perfused jejunum of the anaesthetized rat. The question of whether it also has a vagally mediated remote action on jejunal absorption, when instilled into the ileum, was re-examined, given contradictory findings in the literature. A standard perfused loop preparation was used to measure luminal uptake of fluid in vivo by means of volume recovery. STa in the ileum was found to have no effect on jejunal absorption, regardless of cervical or sub-diaphragmatic vagotomy and also regardless of the nature of the perfusate anion. The batches of toxin were shown in parallel experiments to reduce fluid absorption directly in the jejunum and also in the ileum. Similarly, vagal nerves prior to section had demonstrable in vivo physiological function. There was therefore no evidence for an indirect, vagally mediated ileal effect of STa on proximal fluid absorption.
Accumulating evidence demonstrates that similar neural circuits are activated during the first-hand experience of pain and the observation of pain in others. However, most functional MRI studies did not detect signal change in the primary somatosensory cortex during pain empathy. To test if the perception of pain in others involves the primary somatosensory cortex, neuromagnetic oscillatory activity was recorded from the primary somatosensory cortex in 16 participants while they observed static pictures depicting body parts in painful and non-painful situations. The left median nerve was stimulated at the wrist, and the poststimulus rebounds of the approximately 10-Hz somatosensory cortical oscillations were quantified. Compared to the baseline condition, the level of the approximately 10-Hz oscillations was suppressed during both of the observational situations, indicating the activation of the primary somatosensory cortex. Importantly, watching painful compared to non-painful situations suppressed somatosensory oscillations to a significant stronger degree. In addition, the suppression caused by perceiving others in the painful relative to the non-painful situations correlated with the perspective taking subscale of the interpersonal reaction index. These results, consistent with the mirror-neuron system, demonstrate that the perception of pain in others modulates neural activity in primary somatosensory cortex and supports the idea that the perception of pain in others elicits subtle somatosensory activity that may be difficult to detect by fMRI techniques.
The perirhinal cortex (PER) is part of both the medial temporal lobe memory system (MTL) and the ventral visual stream (VVS). In the MTL, PER provides input to the hippocampal formation directly and via the entorhinal cortex (EC), whereas in the VVS, PER is considered to be at the top of the visual processing hierarchy of object information. Because of its position in both networks, PER presumably serves a role in memory and visual perception. PER's perceptual role is thought to be contingent upon the complexity of visual information, i.e., PER only becomes active in visual perception when many higher order visual cues are combined. Using high-resolution functional MRI (fMRI), we investigated the effect of varying the presence of binocular disparity, in complex visual object stimuli. Nineteen subjects were presented with movies of complex objects and a fixation cross, either with or without binocular disparity (referred to as stereo and mono condition respectively). Subjects were instructed to attentively watch the objects, but no instructions were given to memorize them. Group results showed increased activity in the MTL, among which is PER, when comparing the stereo over the mono condition (stereo &gt; mono). Individual analysis showed dominant activation in the stereo &gt; mono contrast in eleven out of nineteen subjects, whereas only three subjects showed dominance in the opposite contrast. We conclude that the MTL is differentially activated by the stereo and mono condition, such that activation is stronger when a complex visual object stimulus with disparity is presented.
This paper considers the effects of using magnetic resonance scans with different voxel dimensions in voxel-based morphometry studies. This is of potential relevance to many longitudinal studies or any ad-hoc study that relies on pre-existing databases of subjects. In order to study this effect, a group of controls were contrasted with a group of semantic dementia as well as with a group of Alzheimer's disease patients using a mixture of different voxel dimensions scans on each side of the statistical test. Scans were interpolated using a sinc function in order to obtain a different voxel depth. The effects were measured by comparing the output of each analysis to the benchmark in which all scans had the original depth (and highest resolution), both visually and through the computation of the root-mean-square error difference between the resulting t-maps. It was shown that the impact is highly dependent on the scan itself, with some images showing more robustness to the interpolation process, and hence yielding fewer differences. A measure of robustness is proposed, which may be used in order to understand the impact of mixing different dimensions or adjusting them for each scan. Indiscriminate use of voxel dimensions on both groups was found to produce more errors (false positives/false negatives) than does an approach involving the use of balanced groups and a voxel dimension nuisance covariate.
Reverse correlation methods have been widely used in neuroscience for many years and have recently been applied to study the sensitivity of human brain signals (EEG, MEG) to complex visual stimuli. Here we employ one such method, Bubbles (Gosselin, F., Schyns, P.G., 2001. Bubbles: A technique to reveal the use of information in recognition tasks. Vis. Res. 41, 2261-2271), in conjunction with fMRI in the context of a 3AFC facial expression categorization task. We highlight the regions of the brain showing significant sensitivity with respect to the critical visual information required to perform the categorization judgments. Moreover, we reveal the actual subset of visual information which modulates BOLD sensitivity within each such brain region. Finally, we show the potential which lies within analyzing brain function in terms of the information states of different brain regions. Thus, we can now analyse human brain function in terms of the specific visual information different brain regions process.
Functional imaging studies of cortical motor systems in humans have demonstrated age-related reorganisation often attributed to anatomical and physiological changes. In this study we investigated whether aspects of brain activity during a motor task were influenced not only by age, but also by neurophysiological parameters of the motor cortex contralateral to the moving hand. Twenty seven right-handed volunteers underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging whilst performing repetitive isometric right hand grips in which the target force was parametrically varied between 15 and 55% of each subject's own maximum grip force. For each subject we characterised two orthogonal parameters, B(G) (average task-related activity for all hand grips) and B(F) (the degree to which task-related activity co-varied with peak grip force). We used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to assess task-related changes in interhemispheric inhibition from left to right motor cortex (IHIc) and to perform measures relating to left motor cortex excitability during activation of the right hand. Firstly, we found that B(G) in right (ipsilateral) motor cortex was greater with increasing values of age(2) and IHIc. Secondly, B(F) in left ventral premotor cortex was greater in older subjects and in those in whom contralateral M1 was less responsive to TMS stimulation. In both cases, neurophysiological parameters accounted for variability in brain responses over and above that explained by ageing. These results indicate that neurophysiological markers may be better indicators of biological ageing than chronological age and point towards the mechanisms by which reconfiguration of distributed brain networks occurs in the face of degenerative changes.
Mechanical ventilation (MV) is fundamental to the resuscitation of brain injured patients, facilitating tissue oxygen delivery, helping to modulate cerebral vascular reactivity, and ensuring protection of the airway. These benefits come at a cost, which includes a significantly increased risk of pneumonia, delirium, and the complications of sedation and of endotracheal intubation. MV exerts effects on intracranial pressure and cerebral perfusion pressure which may be detrimental in patients with intracranial hypertension. MV can also induce alveolar damage in susceptible individuals, yet changes in ventilation designed to limit this damage may not be tolerated in the setting of brain injury. Recent research has begun to clarify key questions regarding the pathophysiology and management of MV in critically ill neurological patients.
The devastating neurologic injury in survivors of cardiac arrest has been recognized since the development of modern resuscitation techniques. After numerous failed clinical trials, two trials showed that induced mild hypothermia can ameliorate brain injury and improve survival and functional neurologic outcome in comatose survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. This article provides a comprehensive review of the advances in the care of brain injury after cardiac arrest, with updates on the process of prognostication, the use of therapeutic hypothermia and adjunctive intensive care unit care for cardiac arrest survivors.
Central nervous system (CNS) infections presenting to the emergency room include meningitis, encephalitis, brain and spinal epidural abscess, subdural empyema, and ventriculitis. These conditions often require admission to an intensive care unit (ICU) and are complications of ICU patients with neurologic injury, contributing significantly to morbidity and mortality. Reducing morbidity and mortality is critically dependent on rapid diagnosis and, perhaps more importantly, on the timely initiation of appropriate antimicrobial therapy. New insights into the role of inflammation and the immune response in CNS infections have contributed to development of new diagnostic strategies using markers of inflammation, and to the study of agents with focused immunomodulatory activity, which may lead to further adjunctive therapy in human disease.
Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) has the highest mortality of all cerebrovascular events. Thirty-day mortality approaches 50%, and only 20% of survivors achieve meaningful functional recovery at 6 months. Many clinicians believe that effective therapies are lacking; however, this is changing because of new data on the pathophysiology and treatment of ICH, particularly research establishing the role of medical therapies to promote hematoma stabilization. This article provides updates to a recent publication discussing basic principles of ICH management, including initial stabilization, the prevention of hematoma growth, treatment of complications, and identification of the underlying etiology. Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) to reduce clot size is also discussed, with the goal of preserving neurologic function through reduction in parenchymal damage from edema formation.

The prevalence of idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) in a community was investigated by retrospective analysis of data from a previous community-based study of 170 randomly selected elderly residents aged 65 years or older. Magnetic resonance (MR) images of the subjects were reviewed for the specific structural features of idiopathic NPH, i.e. ventricular enlargement and narrow cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) space at high convexity and high midline areas. The clinical features of idiopathic NPH, gait disturbance, urinary incontinence, and cognitive impairment, were evaluated on the basis of records of the subjects' neurological examinations, a health questionnaire, the Mini-Mental State Examination, and Clinical Dementia Rating. Thirteen of the 170 subjects showed lateral ventricular enlargement greater than 0.3 on Evans' index. Five subjects (2.9%) demonstrated both ventricular enlargement and narrow CSF space at the high convexity/midline. All five subjects with these MR imaging signs had cognitive impairment, one had gait disturbance, and one had urinary incontinence. The present study found 2.9% of community-dwelling elderly subjects showed radiological and clinical features consistent with idiopathic NPH.
There is an increased prevalence of patent foramen ovale (PFO) in women with migraine with aura (MwA) compared to controls, but the role of PFO in triggering aura is still debated. The aim of this study was to test a group of women suffering from MwA with near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), to assess the NIRS capability of discriminating between subjects with and without PFO. Eighty-eight MwA patients (mean age 37.4+/-10.7 years, range 16-62 years) underwent NIRS measurement of the cerebral variations of the oxygenated (O2Hb) and reduced haemoglobin (HHb) during breath-holding. The prevalence of O2Hb vs. HHb was used to assess the presence of PFO. As a gold standard, the presence of PFO was assessed by transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD). At the TCD analysis 48 patients (55%) showed PFOs, 32 of which were permanent. NIRS correctly detected 36 subjects out of 40 without PFO, and 38 subjects out of 48 having PFO: sensitivity was 79%; specificity was 90%. All the false negatives were permanent shunts. MwA patients with PFO showed a delayed increase in the O2Hb concentration and a reduced oxygenation with respect to subjects without PFO. NIRS is effective in identifying the presence of PFO in a MwA population, but TCD achieves better diagnostic performances. The NIRS provides additional information about the cerebral vasoreactivity and highlights substantial differences between patients with latent and permanent shunts that warrant further studies.
We evaluated the association between lipid levels and migraine using cross-sectional, population-based data of 1809 subjects aged &gt; or =50 years; 151 subjects with migraine and 1658 nonmigraineurs were included. Diagnosis of migraine was carried out using the criteria of the International Headache Society. The following plasma lipids were collected: total cholesterol (TC), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and triglycerides (TG). Only TC (p&lt;0.003) and LDL-C levels (p&lt;0.004) were significantly higher in migraineurs than nonmigraineurs. After multiple adjustments, only elevated TC (&gt; or =220 mg/dl) was significantly associated with migraine (OR [95% CI]=1.6 [1.1-2.3]); this association increased in elderly males with migraine (OR [95% CI]=3.8 [1.4-9.9]). According to our results, TC plasma levels should be closely monitored in elderly males with migraine.
In order to assess the prevalence of Dopaminergic Premonitory Symptoms (DPS) in migraine patients with Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS), we chose migraine patients from a large Italian clinical headache population previously investigated for an association between primary headaches and RLS. We evaluated a total sample of 164 patients with migraine, in particular 114 with migraine without aura (MO), 10 with migraine with aura (MA) and 40 with MO and MA in various combinations between them or with episodic tension-type headache (ETTH), defined as a &quot;mixed group&quot;. About 20% of all migraine patients referred at least one of the following DPS: yawning, nausea, somnolence or food craving, confirming data already indicated in the literature. Among migraine patients with RLS (25.6%), DPS were referred from about half of the patients (47.6%) compared to those without RLS (47.6% vs. 13.1%; p&lt;0.001). Based on migraine subtype, patients with MO referred DPS (26.3%) more frequently compared to the MA group and &quot;mixed group&quot; (12.0%, p&lt;0.05), particularly in the presence of RLS (63.0% vs. 20.0%, p&lt;0.01). No statistical differences were found between clinical and demographic data of the subgroups or related to medical conditions investigated (anxiety, depression, sleep disorders, body mass index). It is interesting that the chances of having RLS in migraine patients were more than 5 times higher in the presence of DPS. These results could support a hypothetical dopaminergic imbalance in RLS and migraine, as the dopamine is involved in the pathogenesis of both disorders and it is responsible for the migraine DPS reported above.
Chronic headaches have increasingly become a focus within the field of head pain. Most patients with frequent headache eventually overuse their medications. The diagnosis of medication-overuse headache is clinically important, because patients rarely respond to preventive medications whilst overusing acute medications. Properly treating medication overuse and preventing relapse require specific therapeutic strategies and the recognition of the different factors that contribute to its development and perpetuation, including some behaviours and psychological elements that are important in sustaining the overuse of medication. Abrupt withdrawal is considered the first step for helping these patients to stop medication overuse. The possibility of withdrawal within a day-hospital setting is considered a therapeutic alternative for these patients and compared to in-patient withdrawal. Long-term results are discussed.
We evaluated the association between depressive symptoms and migraine using cross-sectional data from the Zabt Aging Project, a population-based study including subjects aged &gt; or =50 years. A total of 1285 nonmigraineurs and 151 migraineurs were included. Diagnosis of migraine was carried out using the criteria of the International Headache Society. The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale (CES-D) was used to score depressive symptoms. Depressive symptoms were clustered in four groups: depressed and positive affects, somatic activity and intrapersonal feelings. Migraineurs showed higher total and specific depressive symptoms than controls (p from 0.005 to &lt;0.0001). Mild-to-moderate depressive symptoms (CES-D score of &gt; or =16) were present in 47.2% of migraineurs compared to 15.8% of controls (p&lt;0.0001). After adjustment for demographics, mild-to-moderate depressive symptoms were strongly associated with migraine (OR [95% CI]=4.7 [3.1-7.0]). This association significantly increased in males (OR [95% CI]=6.2 [2.8-14.6]). Depressive features represent highly frequent comorbid symptoms of adult-to-elderly migraineurs.
Topiramate (TPM) is a new antiepileptic drug approved for the prevention of migraine headache. However its use is limited by treatment-emergent adverse events; in particular, therapy can exert profound impact on language function. In this investigation, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study the anatomofunctional correlates of language disturbances in TPM patients experiencing subjective cognitive impairment. Ten right-handed individuals receiving therapy (five with and five without language disfluency) and five matched healthy control subjects took part in this study. During fMRI subjects alternately rested and performed a word-generating task. The task comprised the silent generation of words beginning with a different input letter visually presented. The activation paradigm consisted of six activation blocks alternating with six baseline rest blocks. The main fMRI measure was the pattern activation of the prefrontal regions (Brodmann's areas 44, 45, and 46) in both left and right hemispheres. Patients receiving TPM (50-100 mg/day) significantly reduced mean monthly migraine frequency. However several differences in fMRI activation were evident in the subject group comparison. Notably, changes in brain activity were observed during the phonemic task in patients with language disturbances. It is likely that TPM therapy is associated with a &quot;remapping&quot; of the language cerebral network.
The challenges in managing the more complicated headache patients are discussed and reviewed in this article. These patients often have chronic daily headache or high-frequency disabling headache. Some of these patients have problems adhering to treatment regimens, which may reduce treatment efficacy and sometimes lead to medication overuse. Medication overuse itself may induce a transformation of headache to daily by reducing the effectiveness of acute and preventive therapies. Biobehavioral factors are important in the assessment and treatment of headache patients. Also the biobehavioral aspects involved in headache patients will provide a model for integration of behavioural therapies into clinical practice. The purpose of this article is to highlight behavioural/psychological factors important to consider for clinicians managing this particular category of patients.
The role of psychological factors related to headache, particularly tension-type headache (TTH), has long been a focus of investigation. The subject at issue is a complex one, with some aspects that are still being debated by experts. In episodic TTH, it is possible to hypothesise that headache is not only a &quot;primary&quot; headache that causes gratuitous pain to sufferers. In fact, it might represent an improper mode of communicating the sufferers' intimate discomfort, caused by an inadequate relationship between their personality profiles and events in their lives. As in migraine, in TTH, too, evidence has been found of comorbidity between headache and psychiatric disorders, including depression and anxiety disorder. Such evidence will have to be confirmed by further studies on the general population. As regards behaviour and personality traits, subjects with TTH had significantly higher scores than healthy controls on measures of automatic thoughts and alexithymia, and lower scores on assertiveness. Patients with chronic TTH had higher automatic thoughts scores than patients with episodic TTH. These findings suggest that people with TTH may have difficulty in expressing their emotions. Finally, psychological factors and emotional disturbances have been indicated as risk factors for TTH. Indeed, stress and mental tension are the most common factors that cause TTH.
Patients with chronic headache forms evolving from a previous episodic migraine ('chronic migraine') are often difficult to treat. In this paper we focus attention on aspects we believe important for producing a definition of &quot;refractory&quot; in relation to this headache form. We propose a &quot;chronic migraine&quot; patient should be considered &quot;refractory&quot; to pharmacological prophylaxis when adequate trials of preventive therapies at adequate doses have failed to reduce headache frequency and improve headache-related disability and, in patients with medication overuse, reduce the consumption of symptomatic drugs. However before a definition of &quot;refractory&quot; chronic migraine can become established, generally accepted diagnostic criteria and treatment guidelines for this condition need to be developed.
A debate has been going on for many years about whether migraine with aura and migraine without aura are part of the same disorder or should instead be considered as two separate disorders. Although no final consensus has yet been reached on this issue, many clinical and pathogenetic elements suggest that the second option is true. Clinically, migraine with aura and migraine without aura are differentiated by epidemiological features, the characteristics of the headache phase, patient behaviour during attacks, natural history, age at onset and age at resolution, the recurrence pattern of attacks, favouring circumstances and trigger factors, correlation to female reproductive events, comorbidity and preventive therapies. Moreover, several literature reports suggest a possible different pathogenetic basis for the two forms of migraine.
Although the possibility of a comorbidity between migraine and hypertension has long been suspected, the epidemiologic evidence is controversial, with studies demonstrating positive, negative or no correlation between the two diseases. A unifying view that takes into account the most recent evidence suggests that there might be a different effect of diastolic and systolic pressure, with the former having a positive and the latter a negative correlation with migraine. In this paper, the methodologic and clinical reasons for the discrepancies in epidemiologic studies are discussed, together with the possible biological mechanisms that might account for the migraine-hypertension correlation. One such mechanisms may be the renin angiotensin system, which is certainly involved in hypertension and has activities in the CNS that may be relevant for migraine pathogenesis. Despite the uncertainty still present in this field, the control of hypertension in migraine patients is an important factor for the success of migraine treatment and to lower cerebrovascular risk.
Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is associated with ischaemic stroke and migraine with aura (MA), and has been proposed as a cause of both. Numerous studies indicate that percutaneous PFO closure can improve MA, but they all suffer from methodological problems. It is recommended that the advantages and risks of PFO closure be carefully assessed in each individual, bearing in mind that effective prophylactic medications are available for MA patients with high attack frequency.
Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a frequent finding in migraine patients. The standard technique for PFO diagnosis is actually trans-oesophageal echocardiography (TEE). It requires the injection of a contrast agent unable to pass the pulmonary filter; hence, it is possible to detect a right-to-left shunt by observing the presence of the contrast medium in the cardiac left compartment. The transcranial Doppler (TCD) device accurately measures the blood flow velocities in different cerebral arteries. It can record microembolic signals (MES) backscattered by microbubbles travelling in the cerebral circulation, and distinguish cardiac shunts from pulmonary shunts. The number of MES is correlated to the entity of the shunt. The near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) technique tracks the changes in the concentration of oxygenated and reduced haemoglobin in the brain tissue. PFO is revealed by an alteration of the normal vasoreactivity pattern of the subject during functional stimuli. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides, at the same time, detailed anatomical information and functional measurements. MRI dynamic perfusion sequences can be used to reliably detect PFO either by visual assessment or by signal-time curves in the pulmonary artery and in the left atrium. A good correlation between TEE and MRI grading scores has been demonstrated, even though the interindividual variability of performing the Valsalva manoeuvre could greatly reduce the sensitivity of the method. Further prospective studies are needed to confirm the PFO MRI grading and to assess the sensitivity and specificity of the method.
Migraine and stroke are two common and prevalent diseases. The relationship between them is an ongoing, intriguing matter of debate. About 40 years ago, some different reports on this topic raised the question of the existence of a relationship between the two diseases. To date the existence of a comorbidity between migraine and ischaemic stroke is supported by population and clinical series studies. Literature data on this subject are reviewed in this report.
This key note lecture illustrates the role of clinical developments in stimulating research and discovery in the area of the pathophysiology of cluster headache (CH) and other trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias (TACs), reviewing the physiological, biochemical and neuroimaging data that have suggested involvement of the hypothalamus in CH pathogenesis. These findings suggested the use of deep brain stimulation as a treatment for chronic drug-resistant CH. The typical circadian and circannual periodicity of CH attacks were the fundamental clinical characteristics that shifted focus from peripheral hypotheses to the idea of central origin for this headache form. Functional neuroimaging demonstrated that TACs are associated with activation of the posterior hypothalamus and there is clinical evidence that patients who suffer from CH have altered biological rhythms. Furthermore, the principal seat of biorhythm regulation - the hypothalamus - is known to have a modulatory role on nociceptive and autonomic pathways, specifically trigemino-vascular nociceptive pathways. Future research will elucidate why neuromodulatory approaches are effective in CH and other TACs, determine whether the hypothalamus is itself the generator of CH attacks, or whether it is activated in response to a generator situated elsewhere, and identify pharmacological treatments that directly target the hypothalamus.
We investigated the frequency and functional relevance of corpus callosum degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A total of 22 ALS patients and 29 healthy controls performed the newly developed Contralateral Co-Movement Test as indicator of callosal dysfunction. Diffusion tensor imaging was applied to determine fractional anisotropy values in the callosal area containing the crossing motor fibers and in the pyramidal tracts in 13 subjects of each group. ALS patients had more than twice the amount of co-movements as compared to healthy subjects. Contralateral co-movements correlated with fractional anisotropy values of the corpus callosum motor region as did ALS Functional Rating Scale as measure of disease progression. In both groups, contralateral co-movements correlated with the central motor index (ratio of the mean of fractional anisotropy values of both pyramidal tracts and corpus callosum motor region). Neuropsychological test results failed to show correlations with functional or morphological parameters. Combining Contralateral Co-Movement Test and diffusion tensor imaging in ALS revealed the close relation between functional and morphological impairment in the degenerating central motor-neuronal network. The Contralateral Co-Movement Test delivers simple means of symptom quantification, independent of ALS Functional Rating Scale, for future neuroprotective trials.

Environmental, dietary, and gastrointestinal factors may contribute to autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Propionic acid (PPA) is a short chain fatty acid, a metabolic end-product of enteric bacteria in the gut, and a common food preservative. Recent evidence indicates that PPA can cause behavioral abnormalities and a neuroinflammatory response in rats. Social behavior was examined in similarly-treated pairs of adult male Long-Evans rats placed in an open field following intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of PPA (4 microl of 0.26 M solution) or control compounds. Behavior was analyzed using both the EthoVision behavior tracking system and by blind scoring of videotapes of social behaviors. Compared to controls, rats treated with PPA displayed social behavior impairments as indicated by significantly greater mean distance apart, reduced time spent in close proximity, reduced playful interaction, and altered responses to playful initiations. Treatment with another short chain fatty acid, sodium acetate, produced similar impairments, but treatment with the alcohol analog of PPA, 1-propanol, did not produce impairments. Immunohistochemical analysis of brain tissue taken from rats treated with PPA revealed reactive astrogliosis, indicating a neuroinflammatory response. These findings suggest that PPA can change both brain and behavior in the laboratory rat in a manner that is consistent with symptoms of human ASD.
The excitatory action of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on synaptic transmission is triggered by adenosine A2A receptor activation. Since high-frequency neuronal firing, such as that inducing long-term potentiation (LTP), favours both A2A receptor activation and BDNF effects on transmission, we now evaluated the influence of adenosine on the facilitatory action of BDNF upon CA1 hippocampal LTP. theta-Burst stimulation of the pyramidal inputs induced a significant and persistent increase in field EPSP slopes, and this potentiation was augmented in the presence of BDNF (20 ng/ml), an action prevented by the inhibitor of Trk receptor autophosphorylation, K252a (200 nM). Removal of endogenous extracellular adenosine with adenosine deaminase (ADA, 1 U/ml), as well as the antagonism of adenosine A2A receptors with SCH58261 (100 nM), prevented the excitatory action of BDNF upon LTP. In an adenosine depleted background (with ADA), activation of adenosine A2A receptors (with 10nM CGS21680) restored the facilitatory effect of BDNF on LTP; this was fully prevented by the protein kinase A inhibitor, H-89 (1 microM) and mimicked by the adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin (10 microM). In similar experiments, activation of adenosine inhibitory A1 receptors (with 5 nM CPA) did not affect the facilitatory effect of BDNF. In conclusion, the facilitatory action of BDNF upon hippocampal LTP is critically dependent on the presence of extracellular adenosine and A2A receptor activation through a cAMP/PKA-dependent mechanism. Since extracellular adenosine accumulates upon high-frequency neuronal firing, the present results reveal a key process to allow the influence of BDNF upon synaptic plasticity.
This study examined age differences in working memory using a delayed-matching-to-sample (DMTS) task. Based on the inhibitory decline hypothesis, which posits that older adults are more susceptible to interference, age differences were expected to be greater for older adults when irrelevant information was present during encoding. Two experiments tested both the access and deletion functions of inhibition. In both experiments, performance was equated for older and younger participants on a no-interference version of the DMTS task to control for age differences in encoding information into working memory. Results consistently showed equivalent effects of distraction for older and younger adults regardless of the difficulty of the perceptual discrimination of targets and distractors, the degree of processing of the distractors, or the semantic relationship between targets and distractors. These results support theories that propose age differences in encoding to explain age differences in working memory, and are inconsistent with theories that propose that older adults are more susceptible to interference than younger adults.
An exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and a series of confirmatory factor analyses were conducted on 17 variables designed to assess different cognitive abilities in a sample of healthy older adults. In the EFA, 4 factors emerged corresponding to language, memory, processing speed, and fluid ability constructs. The results of the confirmatory factor analyses suggested that a 5-factor model with an additional Attention factor improved the fit. The invariance of the 5-factor model was examined across 3 groups: a group of cognitively healthy older adults, a group of patients diagnosed with questionable dementia (QD), and a group of patients diagnosed with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). Results of the invariance analysis suggest that the model may have configural invariance across the 3 groups but not metric invariance. Specifically, preliminary analyses suggest that the memory construct may represent something different in the QD and AD groups as compared to the healthy older adult group, consistent with the underlying pathology in early AD.
Declarative memory impairments are common in patients with bipolar illness, suggesting underlying hippocampal pathology. However, hippocampal volume deficits are rarely observed in bipolar disorder. Here we used surface-based anatomic mapping to examine hippocampal anatomy in bipolar patients treated with lithium relative to matched control subjects and unmedicated patients with bipolar disorder. High-resolution brain magnetic resonance images were acquired from 33 patients with bipolar disorder (21 treated with lithium and 12 unmedicated), and 62 demographically matched healthy control subjects. Three-dimensional parametric mesh models were created from manual tracings of the hippocampal formation. Total hippocampal volume was significantly larger in lithium-treated bipolar patients compared with healthy controls (by 10.3%; p=0.001) and unmedicated bipolar patients (by 13.9%; p=0.003). Statistical mapping results, confirmed by permutation testing, revealed localized deficits in the right hippocampus, in regions corresponding primarily to cornu ammonis 1 subfields, in unmedicated bipolar patients, as compared to both normal controls (p=0.01), and in lithium-treated bipolar patients (p=0.03). These findings demonstrate the sensitivity of these anatomic mapping methods for detecting subtle alterations in hippocampal structure in bipolar disorder. The observed reduction in subregions of the hippocampus in unmedicated bipolar patients suggests a possible neural correlate for memory deficits frequently reported in this illness. Moreover, increased hippocampal volume in lithium-treated bipolar patients may reflect postulated neurotrophic effects of this agent, a possibility warranting further study in longitudinal investigations.
Bupropion (BUP) is a dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) reuptake inhibitor that causes mild weight loss in obese adults. Subchronic (7 day) coadministration of selective DA and NE reuptake inhibitors also causes weight loss in mice. Because weight loss was not associated with decreased caloric intake, subchronic BUP might cause weight loss through increased energy expenditure. Acute studies demonstrate that BUP or DA+NE reuptake inhibitors cause transient hypophagia and increased locomotion; though the effects on temperature are inconsistent. Because subchronic DA+NE reuptake inhibition does not affect appetite, there is clearly a difference between the acute and subchronic effects of DA+NE reuptake inhibitors; however the effects of chronic (or subchronic) BUP on energy balance have never been directly studied in an animal model. Therefore, the acute and subchronic effects of BUP or selective DA and NE reuptake inhibitors on food intake, body weight, locomotor activity, and interscapular temperature were determined in mice. Generally, selective inhibition of DA reuptake (by GBR12783) increased activity while selective inhibition of NE reuptake (by nisoxetine, NIS) decreased activity and temperature. BUP increased activity and temperature but subchronic BUP did not significantly reduce body weight due to a compensatory increase in food intake. Subchronic DA+NE reuptake inhibitor coadministration mimicked the effect of BUP on activity and temperature, but caused weight loss because daily food intake was not increased. The results of this study suggest that the mild weight loss effect of BUP in humans may be due to increased locomotion or heat production. More importantly, inhibition of DA+NE reuptake (with GBR+NIS) increased energy expenditure without a compensatory increase in food intake, supporting a role for novel combination catecholamine reuptake inhibitors in pharmacotherapy for obesity.
One of the most recently identified serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)) receptor subtypes is the 5-HT6 receptor. Although in-depth localization studies reveal an exclusive distribution of 5-HT6 mRNA in the central nervous system, the precise biological role of this receptor still remains unknown. In the present series of experiments, we report the pharmacological and neurochemical characterization of two novel and selective 5-HT6 receptor agonists. WAY-181187 and WAY-208466 possess high affinity binding (2.2 and 4.8 nM, respectively) at the human 5-HT6 receptor and profile as full receptor agonists (WAY-181187: EC50=6.6 nM, Emax=93%; WAY-208466: EC50=7.3 nM; Emax=100%). In the rat frontal cortex, acute administration of WAY-181187 (3-30 mg/kg, subcutaneous (s.c.)) significantly increased extracellular GABA concentrations without altering the levels of glutamate or norepinephrine. Additionally, WAY-181187 (30 mg/kg, s.c.) produced modest yet significant decreases in cortical dopamine and 5-HT levels. Subsequent studies showed that the neurochemical effects of WAY-181187 in the frontal cortex could be blocked by pretreatment with the 5-HT6 antagonist, SB-271046 (10 mg/kg, s.c.), implicating 5-HT6 receptor mechanisms in mediating these responses. Moreover, the effects of WAY-181187 on catecholamines were attenuated by an intracortical infusion of the GABA A receptor antagonist, bicuculline (10 microM), confirming a local relationship between 5-HT6 receptors and GABAergic systems in the frontal cortex. In the dorsal hippocampus, striatum, and amygdala, WAY-181187 (10-30 mg/kg, s.c.) elicited robust elevations in extracellular levels of GABA without producing similar effects on concentrations of norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine, or glutamate. In contrast to these brain regions, WAY-181187 had no effect on the extracellular levels of GABA in the nucleus accumbens or thalamus. Additional studies showed that WAY-208466 (10 mg/kg, s.c.) preferentially elevated cortical GABA levels following both acute and chronic (14 day) administration, indicating that neurochemical tolerance does not develop following repeated 5-HT6 receptor stimulation. In hippocampal slice preparations (in vitro), 5-HT(6) receptor agonism attenuated stimulated glutamate levels elicited by sodium azide and high KCl treatment. Furthermore, in the rat schedule-induced polydipsia model of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), acute administration of WAY-181187 (56-178 mg/kg, po) decreased adjunctive drinking behavior in a dose-dependent manner. In summary, WAY-181187 and WAY-208466 are novel, selective, and potent 5-HT6 receptor agonists displaying a unique neurochemical signature in vivo. Moreover, these data highlight a previously undescribed role for 5-HT6 receptors to modulate basal GABA and stimulated glutamate transmission, as well as reveal a potential therapeutic role for this receptor in the treatment of some types of anxiety-related disorders (eg OCD).
Homer proteins are integral components of the postsynaptic density that are necessary for alcohol-induced neuroplasticity within the nucleus accumbens (NAC). In this report, we describe the effects of chronic alcohol consumption upon NAC Homer expression and investigate the functional consequences of mimicking the alcohol-induced changes in Homer expression vis--vis alcohol-induced changes in NAC neurochemistry and behavior. Chronic alcohol consumption under continuous access (3 months; daily intake approximately 11.2+/-1.5 g/kg/day) produced a robust increase in NAC Homer2 protein levels that was apparent at 2 days, 2 weeks, and 2 months following withdrawal from alcohol drinking. The increased Homer2 expression was accompanied by a less enduring elevation in total mGluR1 and NR2b levels that were evident at 2 days and 2 weeks but not at the 2-month time point. Mimicking the alcohol-induced increase in Homer2 levels by viral transfection of NAC neurons in alcohol-preferring C57BL/6J inbred mice enhanced behavioral output for alcohol reinforcement and increased alcohol intake under both preprandial and postprandial conditions. Moreover, NAC Homer2 overexpression facilitated the expression of an alcohol-conditioned place preference, as well as the development of motor tolerance. Finally, NAC Homer2 overexpression facilitated NAC glutamate and dopamine release following an acute alcohol injection and augmented alcohol-induced dopamine and glutamate sensitization, but did not affect NAC gamma-aminobutyric acid levels. Thus, an upregulation in NAC mGluR-Homer2-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor signaling appears to be an important molecular adaptation to alcohol that promotes neuroplasticity facilitating motivational drive for alcohol and the development of alcoholism-related behaviors.
Investigators have demonstrated that a variety of intensive movement training protocols for persistent upper limb paralysis in patients with chronic stroke (6 months or more after stroke) improve motor outcome. This randomized controlled study determined in patients with upper limb motor impairment after chronic stroke whether movement therapy delivered by a robot or by a therapist using an intensive training protocol was superior. Robotic training (n = 11) and an intensive movement protocol (n = 10) improved the impairment measures of motor outcome significantly and comparably; there were no significant changes in disability measures. Motor gains were maintained at the 3-month evaluation after training. These data contribute to the growing awareness that persistent impairments in those with chronic stroke may not reflect exhausted capacity for improvement. These new protocols, rendered by either therapist or robot, can be standardized, tested, and replicated, and potentially will contribute to rational activity-based programs.

We studied hippocampal cellular proliferation and neurogenesis processes in a model of transient global cerebral ischemia in gerbils by labelling dividing cells with 5'-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU). Surrounding the region of selective neuronal death (CA1 pyramidal layer of the hippocampus), an important increase in reactive astrocytes and BrdU-labelled cells was detected 5 days after ischemia. A similar result was found in the dentate gyrus (DG) 12 days after ischemia. The differentiation of the BrdU+ cells was investigated 28 days after BrdU administration by analyzing the morphology, anatomic localization and cell phenotype by triple fluorescent labelling (BrdU, adult neural marker NeuN and DNA marker TOPRO-3) using confocal laser-scanning microscopy. This analysis showed increased neurogenesis in the DG in case of ischemia and triple positive labelling in some newborn cells in CA1. Seven brain hemispheres from gerbils subjected to ischemia did not develop CA1 neuronal death; hippocampus from these hemispheres did not show any of the above mentioned findings. Our results indicate that ischemia triggers proliferation in CA1 and neurogenesis in the DG in response to CA1 pyramidal neuronal death, independently of the reduced cerebral blood flow or the cell migration from subventricular zone (SVZ).


A snapshot of the current state of play with respect to a number of neurological disease causes and their potential treatments from a cell transplantation perspective, was provided at the 14th annual meeting of American Society for Neural Therapy and Repair (ASNTR). Parkinson's disease and related studies were heavily featured, with Alzheimer's disease, aging and spinal cord injury also proving to be well represented. A number of studies looked at different delivery systems including stem cells or adeno-associated virus vectors, both as proof-of-principles and also their potential as treatments, delivering neurotrophic factors. 'Simple' ways to help battle these disorders, such as dietary modification or supplementation were also revealed. Transplantation was explored both in vivo and in cell culture, where ways to improve cell survival or cause differentiation were investigated. A few reports also shed light on the likelihood of an immune response following transplantation, an important consideration for any potential treatment.
In the present study we investigated the effects of phenolic compounds present in Hypericum perforatum against neuronal excitotoxicity and mitochondrial dysfunction. Quercetin, kaempferol and biapigenin significantly reduced neuronal death caused by 100 microM kainate plus 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate. The observed neuroprotection was correlated with prevention of delayed calcium deregulation and with the maintenance of mitochondrial transmembrane electric potential. The three compounds were able to reduce mitochondrial lipid peroxidation and loss of mitochondrial transmembrane electric potential caused by oxidative stress induced by ADP plus iron. Moreover, biapigenin was also able to significantly affect mitochondrial bioenergetics and decrease the capacity of mitochondria to accumulate calcium. Taken together, the results suggest that the neuroprotective action induced by quercetin and kaempferol are mainly mediated by antioxidant effects, whereas biapigenin mainly affects mitochondrial bioenergetics and calcium uptake.
Human drug experimentation begins during late childhood and early adolescence, a critical time in physical and CNS development, when the immature CNS is vulnerable to the long-term effects of psychoactive drugs. Few preclinical animal studies have investigated responses to such drugs in a developmental stage equivalent to late childhood of humans. We used a rodent model to examine behavioral responses of female Sprague-Dawley late preweanling and adult rats during acute and repeated exposures to a low dose of cocaine. Results show that after cocaine injection, preweanling rats (18-21 days old) have locomotor responses that differ from adults, but after postnatal day 22, the responses are indistinguishable from adults even though rats are still not weaned. Before day 22, locomotor effects of cocaine differ from those in adults in three ways: preweanlings are active for a longer time after cocaine injection at day 18; preweanling activity peaks more rapidly after subcutaneous administration; and after only three injections of cocaine, a tolerance-like pattern is seen in preweanlings whereas an emerging pattern of sensitization to cocaine is seen in adults. The behavioral patterns of this age group offer a preclinical model of the early effects of drugs of abuse.

Oxidative stress is implicated in the pathogenesis of central nervous system damage in neurodegenerative diseases as well as in normal aging. Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common age-related neurodegenerative diseases caused by both environmental and inherited factors. DJ-1 mutations were recently identified in familial PD. The aim of this study was to elucidate the effects of the neurotoxins rotenone and 6-hydroxydopamine that lead to intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) on DJ-1 expression levels and intracellular distribution. The sensitivity to oxidative insults induced by rotenone, 6-hydroxydopamine and hydrogen peroxide of transfected human neuroblastoma cells that were engineered to have increased or decreased DJ-1 levels was also examined. Overexpression of DJ-1 resulted in increased cellular resistance to these insults and reduced intracellular ROS. Contrary effects were achieved when DJ-1 levels were reduced by siRNA. Exposure of nave neuroblastoma cells to rotenone or 6-hydroxydopamine induced upregulation of DJ-1 mRNA and protein levels. Pretreatment with an antioxidant abolished these changes, implying that the upregulation of DJ-1 resulted from oxidative stress. Neurotoxins exposure not only induced upregulation of DJ-1, but also induced cellular redistribution of DJ-1 manifested by translocation of DJ-1 into the mitochondria. These results may imply that DJ-1 plays an important role in the neuronal defense mechanism against oxidative insults.

Phenotypic diversity associated with pathogenic mutations of the human mitochondrial genome (mtDNA) has often been explained by unequal segregation of the mutated and wild-type genomes (heteroplasmy). However, this simple hypothesis cannot explain the tissue specificity of disorders caused by homoplasmic mtDNA mutations. We have previously associated a homoplasmic point mutation (1624C&gt;T) in MTTV with a profound metabolic disorder that resulted in the neonatal deaths of numerous siblings. Affected tissues harboured a marked biochemical defect in components of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, presumably due to the extremely low (&lt;1%) steady-state levels of mt-tRNA(Val). In primary myoblasts and transmitochondrial cybrids established from the proband (index case) and offspring, the marked respiratory deficiency was lost and steady-state levels of the mutated mt-tRNA(Val) were greater than in the biopsy material, but were still an order of magnitude lower than in control myoblasts. We present evidence that the generalized decrease in steady-state mt-tRNA(Val) observed in the homoplasmic 1624C&gt;T-cell lines is caused by a rapid degradation of the deacylated form of the abnormal mt-tRNA(Val). By both establishing the identity of the human mitochondrial valyl-tRNA synthetase then inducing its overexpression in transmitochondrial cell lines, we have been able to partially restore steady-state levels of the mutated mt-tRNA(Val), consistent with an increased stability of the charged mt-tRNA. These data indicate that variations in the levels of VARS2L between tissue types and patients could underlie the difference in clinical presentation between individuals homoplasmic for the 1624C&gt;T mutation.
The activity of NADPH oxidase is increased in malignant skin keratinocytes. We demonstrated that inhibition of NADPH oxidase activity by diphenyleneiodonium (DPI) suppressed free radical production, inhibited cell growth and promoted cell differentiation of B16 melanoma cells, as indicated by cell morphology, increased production of melanin, and increased expression of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF). siRNA to NADPH oxidase subunit Rac1 or p47 induced the expression of MITF, verifying that the pro-differentiation effects are due to the inhibition of NADPH oxidase. Biochemical studies suggest that ERK plays a positive role whereas PKCalpha plays a negative role during this differentiation event. In addition, the protein levels of the tumor suppressor p53 were suppressed by DPI, suggesting that p53 is activated by oxidative stress and may negatively regulate differentiation in melanoma cells. Taken together, these results suggest that inhibiting NADPH oxidase activity promotes cell differentiation of B16 melanoma cells.
A review of the problems of noise-induced hearing loss in children, especially related to recreational music and the use of personal entertainment devices. The pathophysiology of noise-induced hearing loss and its associated problems (eg, tinnitus) are discussed. The evidence for an increase in noise-induced hearing loss in children and young people is reviewed. Some practical advice (for clinicians, caregivers and children) on hearing loss prevention is provided.
The nocebo effect consists in delivering verbal suggestions of negative outcomes so that the subject expects clinical worsening. Here we show that nocebo suggestions, in which expectation of pain increase is induced, are capable of producing both hyperalgesic and allodynic responses. By extending previous findings on the placebo effect, we investigated the role of learning in the nocebo effect by means of a conditioning procedure. To do this, verbal suggestions of pain increase were given to healthy volunteers before administration of either tactile or low-intensity painful electrical stimuli. This nocebo procedure was also carried out after a pre-conditioning session in which two different conditioned visual stimuli were associated to either pain or no-pain. Pain perception was assessed by means of a Numerical Rating Scale raging from 0=tactile to 10=maximum imaginable pain. We found that verbal suggestions alone, without prior conditioning, turned tactile stimuli into pain as well as low-intensity painful stimuli into high-intensity pain. A conditioning procedure produced similar effects, without significant differences. Therefore, in contrast to placebo analgesia, whereby a conditioning procedure elicits larger effects compared to verbal suggestions alone, learning seems to be less important in nocebo hyperalgesia. Overall, these findings indicate that, by defining hyperalgesia as an increase in pain sensitivity and allodynia as the perception of pain in response to innocuous stimulation, nocebos can indeed produce both hyperalgesic and allodynic effects. These results also suggest that learning is not important in nocebo hyperalgesia compared to placebo analgesia.
The vanilloid receptor TRPV1 has been identified as a molecular target for the treatment of pain associated with inflammatory diseases and cancer. Hence, TRPV1 antagonists have been considered for therapeutic evaluation in such diseases. During Phase I clinical trials with AMG 517, a highly selective TRPV1 antagonist, we found that TRPV1 blockade elicited marked, but reversible, and generally plasma concentration-dependent hyperthermia. Similar to what was observed in rats, dogs, and monkeys, hyperthermia was attenuated after repeated dosing of AMG 517 (at the highest dose tested) in humans during a second Phase I trial. However, AMG 517 administered after molar extraction (a surgical cause of acute pain) elicited long-lasting hyperthermia with maximal body temperature surpassing 40 degrees C, suggesting that TRPV1 blockade elicits undesirable hyperthermia in susceptible individuals. Mechanisms of AMG 517-induced hyperthermia were then studied in rats. AMG 517 caused hyperthermia by inducing tail skin vasoconstriction and increasing thermogenesis, which suggests that TRPV1 regulates vasomotor tone and metabolic heat production. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that: (a) TRPV1-selective antagonists like AMG 517 cannot be developed for systemic use as stand alone agents for treatment of pain and other diseases, (b) individual susceptibility influences magnitude of hyperthermia observed after TRPV1 blockade, and (c) TRPV1 plays a pivotal role as a molecular regulator for body temperature in humans.
N-linked glycans, including sialic acids, are integral components of ion channel complexes. To determine if N-linked sugars can modulate a rapidly inactivating K+ channel, the glycosylated Drosophila melanogaster Shaker K+ channel (ShB) and the N-glycosylation-deficient mutant (ShNQ), were studied under conditions of full and reduced sialylation. Through an apparent electrostatic mechanism, full sialylation induced uniform and significant hyperpolarizing shifts in all measured voltage-dependent ShB gating parameters compared to those measured under conditions of reduced sialylation. Steady-state gating of ShNQ was unaffected by changes in sialylation and was nearly identical to that observed for ShB under conditions of reduced sialylation, indicating that N-linked sialic acids were wholly responsible for the observed effects of sialic acid on ShB gating. Interestingly, the rates of transition among channel states and the voltage-independent rates of activation and inactivation were significantly slower for ShNQ compared to ShB. Both effects were independent of sialylation, indicating that N-linked sugars other than sialic acids alter ShB gating kinetics but have little to no effect on the steady-state distribution of channels among states. The effect of sialic acids on channel gating, particularly inactivation gating, and the impact of other N-linked sugars on channel gating kinetics are unique to the ShB isoform. Thus, ShB gating is modulated by two complementary but distinct sugar-dependent mechanisms, (1) an N-linked sialic acid-dependent surface charge effect and (2) a sialic acid-independent effect that is consistent with N-linked sugars affecting the stability of ShB among its functional states.
Evaluation of: Byun E, Caillier SJ, Montalban X et al.: Genome-wide pharmacogenomic analysis of the response to interferon-beta therapy in multiple sclerosis. Arch. Neurol. 65(3) 337-344 (2008). Specifically, IFN-beta is the most widely used disease-modifying therapy for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. The main benefits of the therapy, fewer and less severe relapses as well as delayed disease progression, are seen in only approximately 50% of the patients. Genetic polymorphisms may constitute in-built determinants of individual differences in response to IFN-beta. Prior attempts to identify such 'predictors of response' were hypothesis-driven in that they were based on preselection of candidate genes associated with Type I interferon pathways. In the present study, the authors performed the first ever nonbiased genome-wide association screen in an attempt to identify response-predictive SNPs. Using a robust four-stage completion strategy coupled to advanced SNP ranking/clustering algorithms, 18 significant SNPs were identified, many of which are located in genes that have never before been linked clearly to Type I interferon biology or therapeutic effects. While this study was not designed per se so as to validate earlier findings, genes arising from previous pharmacogenomic studies were generally not confirmed. This is due to major discrepancies between interstudy sets of used SNPs, but may also reflect differential strategies for ascertainment of response to IFN-beta, or simply Type I/II errors. The 100-K SNP screen by Byun et al. hallmarks a new stage of pharmacogenomics research applied to multiple sclerosis treatments. Through the judicious implementation of DNA pooling on SNP microarrays, it vividly demonstrates that informative genome-wide pharmacogenomic screens can be performed at a fraction of the cost of individual microarray genotyping. Although, unquestionably, higher-density SNP screens and further replication studies are needed, this study is instrumental in bringing the concept of personalized medicine a (small) step closer to the multiple sclerosis patient. In addition, it has generated a flurry of novel information of likely importance in furthering our understanding of Type I interferon biology.
Schizophrenia encompasses, amongst other symptoms, a heavy load of cognitive dysfunctionality. Using the psychotomimetic agent, phencyclidine (PCP), we have previously found that PCP-induced disruptions of cognitive function in translational rodent models of schizophrenia are dependent on nitric oxide (NO) production. In the present study, male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a Morris water maze task designed to assess cognitive flexibility (i.e. the ability to cope with an increasingly demanding cognitive task) by means of a &quot;constant reversal learning paradigm&quot;. Experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of the NO synthase inhibitor, L-NAME (10 mg/kg), on PCP-induced (2 mg/kg) impairments. Control animals significantly improved their learning over the first 3 consecutive days, whereas PCP-treated animals failed to show any significant learning. Pretreatment with L-NAME normalized the PCP-induced disruption of learning to control levels. These findings suggest that PCP-induced disruptions of cognitive flexibility (i.e. ability to modify behaviour according to an increasingly demanding cognitive task) are dependent upon NO production. These observations, together with accumulated clinical findings, suggest that the NO system is a potential treatment target for cognitive dysfunctions in schizophrenia.
The effects of antidepressant drugs on memory have been somewhat ignored, having been considered a mere side effect of these compounds. However, the memory impairment caused by several antidepressants could be considered to form part of their therapeutic effects. Amitriptyline is currently one of the most prescribed tricyclic antidepressants, and exerts marked anticholinergic and antihistaminergic effects. In this study, we evaluated the effects of inhibitory avoidance (IA) learning and acute administration of amitriptyline on brain oxidative metabolism. Brain oxidative metabolism was measured in several limbic regions using cytochrome oxidase (CO) quantitative histochemistry. Amitriptyline produced a clear impairment in the IA task. In animals exposed only to the apparatus, amitriptyline decreased CO activity in nine brain regions, without affecting the remaining regions. In animals that underwent the IA training phase, amitriptyline reduced CO activity in only three of these nine regions. In animals treated with saline, IA acquisition increased CO activity in the medial prefrontal cortex, the prelimbic cortex, and the medial mammillary body, and diminished it in the medial septum and the nucleus basalis of Meynert with respect to animals exposed only to the IA apparatus. In animals treated with amitriptyline, IA acquisition did not modify CO activity in any of these regions, but increased it in the anteromedial nucleus of the thalamus, the diagonal band of Broca, and the dentate gyrus. The results reveal a pattern of changes in brain oxidative metabolism induced by IA training in saline-treated animals that was clearly absent in animals submitted to the same behavioural training but treated with amitriptyline.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been proposed as a therapeutics to reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study shows that the peripheral administration of dexibuprofen (S(+)-isomer ibuprofen), which causes less gastric damage and has better anti-inflammatory effects than ibuprofen, reduces the microglial activation in the cortex and hippocampus, and reduces the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases in the hippocampus, which has been induced by chronic infusion of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) into the fourth ventricle of Wistar rats. The effects of dexibuprofen on impairments of spatial working memory induced by LPS infusions were measured with a trial-unique matching-to-place task in a water maze which assessed memory for place information over varying delays. When performing the water maze task, the rats with the LPS infusions showed spatial working memory impairments relative to the rats with the artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Daily administrations of dexibuprofen reduced the spatial working memory impairment induced by the chronic LPS infusion. The results indicate that NSAID treatments using dexibuprofen significantly attenuate the processes that drive the pathology associated with AD and that this process may involve the suppression of microglial activation.
Endogenous cannabinoids modulate the activity of dopamine reward pathways and may play a role in the development of behavioural sensitization to psychostimulants. Here, we investigated the effects of the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist AM251 on amphetamine-induced locomotor sensitization in mice. Furthermore, we measured post-mortem monoamine concentrations in nucleus accumbens and hippocampus after termination of the behavioural tests. The results can be summarized as follows: Mice pre-treated with AM251 (3 mg/kg; i.p.) showed less sensitivity to the psychomotor stimulant as well as locomotor sensitizing effects of amphetamine (2 mg/kg; i.p.) resembling previous results obtained with CB(1) receptor-deficient animals. Furthermore, the behavioural effects of AM251 were paralleled by increased dopamine concentration in nucleus accumbens and increased serotonin concentration/turnover rate in hippocampus, respectively. The present data indicate that under normal conditions activation of the CB(1) receptor facilitates those adaptive responses elicited by repeated psychostimulant administration and resulting in sensitization, possibly by reducing dopamine biosynthesis and serotonin turnover in the nucleus accumbens and hippocampus.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI), a form of sensorimotor gating, is reduced in a number of psychiatric disorders. Two experiments were conducted to determine whether corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), which decreases PPI, does so via effects on serotonin (5-HT). Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and Brown Norway (BN) rats were used in both experiments in order to examine whether strain-dependent differences would be apparent in response to manipulations of the CRF and 5-HT systems. In the first experiment, WKY and BN rats received a subcutaneous injection of the 5-HT(2A/C) receptor antagonist, ketanserin (2.0 mg/kg). Ten minutes later, rats received an intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion of either 6.0 microl saline or CRF (0.3 microg or 3.0 microg). CRF decreased PPI despite blockade of 5-HT(2A/C) receptors with ketanserin. In the second experiment, WKY and BN rats received an intraperitoneal injection of the 5-HT synthesis inhibitor, p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA, 150 mg/kg), 48 and 24 h prior to testing. On testing day, rats received an ICV infusion of either 6.0 microl saline or CRF (0.3 microg or 3.0 microg). CRF decreased PPI despite 5-HT depletion. These findings suggest that CRF does not decrease PPI via effects on 5-HT, since neither blockade of 5-HT(2A/C) receptors nor 5-HT depletion attenuated this decrease.
A number of studies support the notion that lithium interacts with the protein kinase C (PKC) pathway, an important mediator of several intracellular responses to neurotransmitter signaling. PDLIM5 (PDZ and LIM domain 5; LIM) is an adaptor protein that selectively binds the isozyme PKC(epsilon) to N-type Ca(2+) channels in neurons. We tested for an association between three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at the PDLIM5 gene and lithium prophylaxis in a Sardinian sample comprised of 155 bipolar patients treated with lithium. In order to evaluate whether PDLIM5 expression interacts with lithium response, we carried out gene expression analysis in lymphoblastoid cells of 30 bipolar patients. No association was shown between PDLIM5 polymorphisms and lithium response. When PDLIM5 expression was evaluated, no significant differences were detected between Full Responders to lithium (total score&gt;or=7) and other patients (total score&lt;or=6). Our negative findings do not exclude involvement of PDLIM5 in lithium prophylaxis, and further investigation is warranted.
There is growing interest in studying the role of connectivity patterns in brain functions. In recent years, functional brain networks were found to exhibit small-world properties during different brain states. In previous studies, time-independent networks were recovered from long time periods of brain activity. In this paper, we propose an approach, the event-related networks, that allows one to characterize the dynamical evolution of functional brain networks in time-frequency space. We illustrate this approach by characterizing connectivity patterns in magnetoencephalographic signals recorded during a visual stimulus paradigm. When compared with equivalent random and regular networks, the results reveal that functional connectivity varies with time and frequency during the processing of the stimulus, while maintaining a small-world structure. This approach may provide insights into the connectivity of other complex and spatially extended nonstationary systems.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) has become a standard clinical procedure in assessing the health of white matter in the brain. Tractography, the tracing of individual fibers in the brain using DTI data, has begun to play a more central role in neuroscience research, particularly in understanding the relationships between brain connectivity and behavior. The measuring of features related to bundles of fibers, i.e., tracts or fasciculi, is currently problematic because of the need for manual interaction. This article presents an algorithm for the automatic identification of selected white matter tracts. It extracts fibers using the FACT algorithm and finds cortical gyral labels using a multi-atlas deformable registration scheme. Tracts are identified as the fibers passing between selected cortical labels. The quality of automatic labels are compared both visually and numerically against a well-accepted manual approach. The automatic approach is shown to be more consistent with conventional definitions of tracts and more repeatable on separate scans of the same subject.
Given the array of biological changes induced by stressors, it is not surprising that these experiences may provoke a variety of illnesses. Among others things, stressors promote functional changes of neuropeptide and classical neurotransmitter systems. The peptidergic changes, for instance, include alterations of corticotropin releasing hormone, arginine vasopressin, and bombesin-like peptides at specific brain sites. Similarly some of the neurotransmitter systems influenced by stressors include GABAergic and monoamine functioning. Variations of these processes may limit neurogenesis (and dysregulation of growth factors such as BDNF) and influence cellular viability (through NFkappaB and MAP kinase pathways). As well, stressors activate the inflammatory immune system, notably the release of signaling molecules (cytokines), which may provoke many of the same neuropeptide (and other neurotransmitter) changes. By virtue of their actions on neuronal functioning, inflammatory processes may influence stress-related illness, such as depression, and may be a common denominator for the comorbidity that exists between depression and neurological conditions, including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, as well as cardiovascular-related pathology. The present report provides an overview of biological endophenotypes associated with stressors that are thought to be related to major depressive disorder and related comorbid conditions. The view is taken that synergy between stressors and inflammatory factors may promote pathological outcomes through their actions on neuropeptides and several neurotransmitters. As well, stressful events may result in the sensitization of neurochemical and cytokine processes, so that later re-exposure to these stimuli may promote rapid and exaggerated responses that favor illness recurrence.
Dopaminergic neurons located in the ventral midbrain (i.e. mesodiencephalic dopamine, mdDA, neurons) are essential for the control of diverse cognitive and motor behaviors and are associated with multiple psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Three anatomically and functionally distinct subgroups of mdDA neurons have been identified (A8-A10) which give rise to prominent forebrain projections (i.e. the mesostriatal, mesocortical and mesolimbic pathways). The development of mdDA neurons is a complex, multi-step process. It includes early developmental events such as cell fate specification, differentiation and migration, and later events including neurite growth, guidance and pruning, and synapse formation. Significant progress has been made in defining the early events involved in mdDA neuron development [see Smits, S.M., Burbach, J.P., Smidt, M.P., 2006. Developmental origin and fate of meso-diencephalic dopamine neurons. Prog. Neurobiol. 78, 1-16.]. Although later stages of mdDA neuron development are less well understood, recent studies have begun to identify cellular and molecular signals thought to be involved in establishing mdDA neuronal connectivity. The purpose of the present review is to summarize our current understanding of the ontogeny and anatomy of mdDA axon pathways, to highlight recent progress in defining the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie the formation and remodeling of mdDA circuits, and to discuss the significance of this progress for understanding and treating situations of perturbed connectivity in the mdDA system.
In the present study, we have used a combination of 2-DE and MS to isolate and characterize two variants of the mitochondrial complex I subunit NDUFA10 from Wistar rat brain. Extensive MS/MS analysis revealed that a D/N substitution at position 120 resulting from a 353A/G transition in the coding gene is the biochemical difference between the two most abundant NDUFA10 isoforms. Moreover, 33 modifications of distinct chemical nature targeting 59 specific residues were found to be common to the acidic and basic forms. Positions C67, H149 and H322 of NDUFA10 were specially targeted by different modifications suggesting the high reactivity of these residues and their potential implication in the regulation of the protein function. Together with nonenzymatic modifications that can form in the sample isolation and workup steps, such as oxidation of methionine, tryptophan, cysteine and histidine, we describe amino acid variants of unknown chemical structure that must be further characterized, as well as accumulation of R, K and H methylations and probably K acetylations at the C-terminal region that might play a role in the control of NDUFA10 activity according to similar mechanisms to those described for histones.
Neurodegenerative illnesses are characterized by aberrant metabolism of biometals such as copper (Cu), zinc (Zn) and iron (Fe). However, little is known about the metabolic effects associated with altered metal homeostasis. In this study, we used an in vitro model of altered Cu homeostasis to investigate how Cu regulates cellular protein expression. Human fibroblasts containing a natural deletion mutation of the Menkes (MNK) ATP7A Cu transporter (MNK deleted) were compared to fibroblasts overexpressing ATP7A (MNK transfected). Cultures of MNK-transfected (Low-Cu) cells exhibited 95% less intracellular Cu than MNK-deleted (High-Cu) cells. Comparative proteomic analysis of the two cell-lines was performed using antibody microarrays, and significant differential protein expression was observed between Low-Cu and High-Cu cell-lines. Western blot analysis confirmed the altered protein expression of Ku80, nexilin, L-caldesmon, MAP4, Inhibitor 2 and DNA topoisomerase I. The top 50 altered proteins were analysed using the software program Pathway Studio (Ariadne Genomics) and revealed a significant over-representation of proteins involved in DNA repair and maintenance. Further analysis confirmed that expression of the DNA repair protein Ku80 was dependent on cellular Cu homeostasis and that Low-Cu levels in fibroblasts resulted in elevated susceptibility to DNA oxidation.
Mental health advocates and policy makers are increasingly attuned to the importance of the recovery concept, and psychiatrists and neuroscientists increasingly emphasize the medical model and neurobiological mechanisms in relation to schizophrenia. Studies have shown that people with schizophrenia are tremendously heterogeneous in each domain of recovery, and the various domains of recovery are themselves relatively independent from one another. Studies have also shown that current interventions are effective for specific dimensions of the illness and functions, are usually ameliorative rather than curative, and are effective only for a proportion of patients. Hence, the authors suggest defining recovery in terms of improvements in specific domains rather than globally -- for example, &quot;recovery of cognitive functioning&quot; or &quot;recovery of vocational functioning&quot; -- to signify improvements in specific areas. This definition realistically emphasizes states of relative and partial recovery that patients can achieve in response to treatment. The emphasis on a range of improvements in specific areas should allow clinicians to communicate more clearly regarding the current findings and goals of treatment. The article also examines current research on various aspects of recovery, including the effects of treatment on pathophysiology, symptoms, cognitive impairments, quality of life, and self-agency. An operational definition of recovery allows for bridging hope and recovery with important advances in the science of the brain. Future clinical and neuroscience research and service development should emphasize measures of recovery as outcomes for people with schizophrenia.

Observers judged whether a periodically moving visual display (point-light walker) had the same temporal frequency as a series of auditory beeps that in some cases coincided with the apparent footsteps of the walker. Performance in this multisensory judgment was consistently better for upright point-light walkers than for inverted point-light walkers or scrambled control stimuli, even though the temporal information was the same in the three types of stimuli. The advantage with upright walkers disappeared when the visual &quot;footsteps&quot; were not phase-locked with the auditory events (and instead offset by 50% of the gait cycle). This finding indicates there was some specificity to the naturally experienced multisensory relation, and that temporal perception was not simply better for upright walkers per se. These experiments indicate that the gestalt of visual stimuli can substantially affect multisensory judgments, even in the context of a temporal task (for which audition is often considered dominant). This effect appears to be constrained by the ecological validity of the particular pairings.
Observing touch on another person's body activates brain regions involved in tactile perception, even when the observer's body is not directly stimulated. Previous work has shown that in some synaesthetes, this effect induces a sensation of being touched. The present study shows that if perceptual thresholds are experimentally manipulated, viewing touch can modulate tactile experience in nonsynaesthetes as well. When observers saw a face being touched by hands, rather than a face being merely approached by hands, they demonstrated enhanced detection of subthreshold tactile stimuli on their own faces. This effect was specific to observing touch on a body part, and was not found for touch on a nonbodily stimulus, namely, a picture of a house. In addition, the effect was stronger when subjects viewed their own faces rather than another person's face. Thus, observing touch can activate the tactile system, and if perceptual thresholds are manipulated, such activation can result in a behavioral effect in nonsynaesthetes. The effect is maximum if the observed body matches the observer's body.











Paradoxical sleep (PS or REM sleep) is traditionally a matter for neurophysiology, a science of the brain. Dream is associated with neuropsychology and sciences of the mind. The relationships between sleep and dream are better understood in the light of new methodologies in both domains, particularly those of basic neurosciences which elucidate the mechanisms underlying SP and functional imaging techniques. Data from these approaches are placed here in the perspective of rather old clinical observations in human cerebral lesions and in the phylogeny of vertebrates, in order to support a theory of dream. Dreams may be seen as a living marker of a cognitivo-emotional process, called here &quot;eidictic process&quot;, involving posterior brain and limbic structures, keeping up during wakefulness, but subjected, at that time, to the leading role of a cognitivo-rational process, called here &quot;thought process&quot;. The last one is of instrumental origin in human beings. It involves prefrontal cortices (executive tasks) and frontal/parietal cortices (attention) in the brain. Some clinical implications of the theory are illustrated.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder belongs to anxiety disorders, with a prevalence of 2,5% in the general population. The pathogeny of the disorder includes a probable genetic component but of moderate importance. Neuroimaging studies showed a hyperactivity of the prefrontal cortex and the caudate nucleus which appears to reflect abnormalities in cerebral circuits. The pharmacological treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder comprises in first line selective serotonin reuptake blocker antidepressants. Clomipramine (Anafranil), often considered as more effective represents a second choice due to its side-effects. The treatment generally requires high doses of antidepressants administered over a prolonged period. Several augmentation strategies have been proposed for resistant patients. Very recently, brain neurostimulation techniques using implanted electrodes have demonstrated their interest in case of failure of other treatment strategies.
The goal of this article is to share some reflection on the astonishing evolution of the ideas in communication neuroscience and neurolinguistics over the last 30 years, since the founding of the socit de neuropsychologie de langue franaise. in particular, a number of conceptual and methodological advancements have characterized this period, many of which have been lead or heavily contributed by french-speaking research groups in that field. among the advances discussed, are (a) the widening to discourse and pragmatic components of the concept of language, as well as the theoretical and clinical implication of this conceptual extension, (b) the unique contribution of anatomical and functional neuroimaging, (c) the massive impact of the cognitive revolution on theoretical frameworks of language components, and its influence on therapy, (d) the disappearance and the re-appearance of the brain in the main stream research on language over this period, (e) the new perspectives offered though attention put on social aspects of language and the social participation of the individual with language disorders, (f) the emergence of a genuine science of aphasia rehabilitation, and (g) the rediscovery of inter-individual characteristics both genetically- and environmentally- determined. The authors then risk themselves in trying to envision what could characterize the evolution in the field for the next 30 years. Though perilous, this speculative exercise allowed to pinpoint to a number of anticipated advancements including (a) a probable reconciliation between cognitive and connectionist models to the benefit of both visions, (b) an increased contribution of social and emotional neurosciences, (c) some inescapable technological advancements, including light portable neuroimaging devices which will allow to study the neurobiological bases of communication in natural contexts, (d) the integration between communication and aging in cognitive neuroscience and (e) the development of new research fields at some unexpected cross-roads (e.g., physical activity and communication ?) as well as the description of new types of aphasia (e.g., towards a chat aphasia !). Taken together, the advancements made over the 30 last years, and the perspective of future development, confirms the premier role of cognitive neuroscience of language and neurolinguistics in setting the pace through innovative approaches that allow unveiling the mysteries of the mutual relationships between brain and cognition.
On the occasion of a one-day scientific conference staged at the Collge de France on December 7th 2007 to mark the thirtieth birthday of the French-Speaking Neuropsychological Society (SNLF for Socit de Neuropsychologie de Langue Franaise), the authors retrace the landmark events in the history of this learned society, beginning with its founding by Henri Hcaen and a group of French-speaking clinicians and research scientists. Emphasis is placed on its increasingly influential status and on its noteworthy contribution to the development of clinical and cognitive neurosciences at both scientific and institutional levels. With a current membership of five hundred, the SNLF engages in a range of activities, including publishing, and holds several meetings each year. It played an active part in setting up the Federation of the European Societies of Neuropsychology (FESN), but has also been keen to reinforce its links with Canadian researchers and clinicians. Loyal to the stated aims of its founder members, the SNLF advocates as high a theoretical level of debate as possible, while working to promote constructive discussions and exchanges of ideas between clinicians, researchers and academics from varied professional backgrounds.
The approach of executive functions began with the early description of behavioural disorders induced by frontal damage. The development of neuropsychology has led to the description of a large variety of cognitive disorders. The interpretation in cognitive terms of these disorders has emphasized the critical impairment of executive functions which are involved in non-routine situations. The role of working memory, initially suggested by animal studies, has also largely influenced theoretical approaches. Numerous studies have been interpreted within the theoretical frameworks developed by Shallice and by Baddeley. A large amount of studies have allowed the specification of control processes (initiation, inhibition...). Recent studies are beginning to investigate cognitive disorders underlying behavioural changes such as deficits of emotional, social and metacognitive processes. In addition these studies seriously question the assumption of a unique central control system. These studies have deeply influenced the clinical approach, the assessment and the diagnosis of executive syndrome. For clinical practice, these data lead to favour specific assessment of some key behavioural and cognitive deficits based on a battery of tests and structured interview of an informant.
Recent interest in the neurobiology of the placebo effect has brought about a new awareness of its potential exploitation for patient benefit, framing it as a positive context effect with the power to influence therapy outcome. Among the different placebo effects described in clinical conditions and experimental settings, placebo analgesia is of particular relevance to the rheumatologist. Placebo analgesia is the field that has most contributed to our understanding of the multiple mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. The possible clinical applications of placebo studies range from the design of clinical trials incorporating specific recommendations and minimizing the use of placebo arms to the optimization of the context surrounding the patient so that the placebo component in any treatment is maximized.
Gene expression represents a fundamental interface between genes and environment in the development and ongoing plasticity of the human brain. Individual differences in gene expression are likely to underpin much of human diversity, including psychiatric illness. In the past decade, the development of microarray and proteomic technology has enabled global description of gene expression in schizophrenia. However, it is difficult on the basis of gene expression assays alone to distinguish between those changes that constitute primary etiology and those that reflect secondary pathology, compensatory mechanisms, or confounding influences. In this respect, tests of genetic association with schizophrenia will be instructive because changes in gene expression that result from gene variants that are associated with the disorder are likely to be of primary etiological significance. However, regulatory polymorphism is extremely difficult to recognize on the basis of sequence interrogation alone. Functional assays at the messenger RNA and/or protein level will be essential in elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying genetic association with schizophrenia and are likely to become increasingly important in the identification of regulatory variants with which to test for association with the disorder and related traits. Once established, etiologically relevant changes in gene expression can be recapitulated in model systems in order to elucidate the molecular and physiological pathways that may ultimately give rise to the condition.
The &quot;Binding Problem&quot; is an important problem across many disciplines, including psychology, neuroscience, computational modeling, and even philosophy. In this work, we proposed a novel computational model, Bayesian Linking Field Model, for feature binding in visual perception, by combining the idea of noisy neuron model, Bayesian method, Linking Field Network and competitive mechanism. Simulation Experiments demonstrated that our model perfectly fulfilled the task of feature binding in visual perception and provided us some enlightening idea for future research.



Lysophospholipids are signaling molecules that play broad and major roles within the nervous system during both early development and neural injury. We used neural differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESC) as an in vitro model to examine the specific effects of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) at various stages of neural development, from neural induction to mature neurons and glia. We report that LPA inhibits neurosphere formation and the differentiation of neural stem cells (NSC) toward neurons, without modifying NSC proliferation, apoptosis, or astrocytic differentiation. LPA acts through the activation of the Rho/ROCK and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathways to inhibit neuronal differentiation. This study is the first demonstration of a role for LPA signaling in neuronal differentiation of hESC. As LPA concentrations increase during inflammation, the inhibition of neuronal differentiation by LPA might contribute to the low level of neurogenesis observed following neurotrauma.


Cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) has been detected in brain regions which are of relevance for the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease, such as the substantia nigra (SN). Furthermore, CYP2E1 is known to generate reactive oxygen species (ROS), toxic molecules which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the disease. We have previously reported that CYP2E1 inhibition increases extracellular dopamine (DA) in the SN. The aims of the present study were by using in vivo microdialysis in rat, to elucidate the mechanisms responsible for the increase in extracellular DA induced by CYP2E1 inhibition and to explore whether ROS is produced in the SN, both with and without the presence of an exogenous CYP2E1 substrate. The effect of inhibition of CYP2E1 by phenylethyl isothiocyanate (100 mg/kg) on extracellular DA in the SN was unaltered following pretreatment with gamma-butyrolactone and GBR-12909, drugs that inhibit firing of DA neurons and DA re-uptake, respectively. Preadministration of tetrodotoxin or reserpine, however, abolished the effect of CYP2E1 inhibition. Administration of isoflurane, an anesthetic which is metabolized by CYP2E1, increased the production of *OH in the SN, as measured by the transformation of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid during local perfusion compared with animals given other anesthetics. The results support the notion that CYP2E1 is located near or in the same compartment in the SN as stored DA, tentatively the endoplasmatic reticulum, and that the enzyme activity might modulate the amount of DA that is available for release. Furthermore, our findings indicate that the production of ROS can be stimulated by CYP2E1 substrates.
Occasional reports have mentioned the prevalence of multiple sclerosis (MS) among Gypsies, and no studies have examined to date the prevalence of MS or human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genetics associations in the Spanish Gypsy population. We decided to study the prevalence, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroups and HLA class II distribution among gypsies with MS in southern Spain. We searched for Gypsy MS patients and studied HLA class II alleles by polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific oligonucleotide (PCR/SSO) probe hybridization or sequence-specific primers amplification. An additional study of the mtDNA haplogroups by sequencing of the hypervariable segments of the control region was also performed to provide details of their ethnic origin. Estimated prevalence of MS in the Gypsy population in Malaga was 52/100,000. No significant differences were found in mtDNA between Gypsy MS patients and Gypsy controls. DRB1*1501, DQB1*0602 and DQB1*0608 alleles were the only positive HLA association with MS. The Gypsies in our series have the same anthropological origin as other European gypsy groups, as shown by mtDNA haplogroups. Although interpreted with great caution because of the small sample size, we found that the prevalence of MS in Gypsies in Malaga is not as low as that in Central Europe, although it is significantly less than that found in Caucasians from Spain (75-79/100,000). DQB1*0602 was the strongest positive association found with Gypsy MS patients, and DRB1*1501-DQB1*0602 was the most frequent haplotype in this group.
The recognition of hierarchical structure in human behavior was one of the founding insights of the cognitive revolution. Despite decades of research, however, the computational mechanisms underlying hierarchically organized behavior are still not fully understood. Recent findings from behavioral and neuroscientific research have fueled a resurgence of interest in the problem, inspiring a new generation of computational models. In addition to developing some classic proposals, these models also break fresh ground, teasing apart different forms of hierarchical structure, placing a new focus on the issue of learning and addressing recent findings concerning the representation of behavioral hierarchies within the prefrontal cortex. In addition to offering explanations for some key aspects of behavior and functional neuroanatomy, the latest models also pose new questions for empirical research.
The morphological development of the cerebral cortex from a primitive neuroepithelium into a complex laminar structure underlying higher cognition must rely on a network of intercellular signaling. Gap junctions are widely expressed during embryonic development and provide a means of cell-cell contact and communication. We review the roles of gap junctions in regulating the proliferation of neural progenitors as well as the migration and differentiation of young neurons in the embryonic cerebral cortex. There is substantial evidence that although gap junctions act in the classical manner coupling neural progenitors, they also act as hemichannels mediating the spread of calcium waves across progenitor cell populations and as adhesive molecules aiding neuronal migration. Gap junctions are thus emerging as multifaceted regulators of cortical development playing diverse roles in intercellular communication.
Aging is the most important risk factor for common neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Aging in the central nervous system has been associated with elevated mutation load in mitochondrial DNA, defects in mitochondrial respiration and increased oxidative damage. These observations support a 'vicious cycle' theory which states that there is a feedback mechanism connecting these events in aging and age-associated neurodegeneration. Despite being an extremely attractive hypothesis, the bulk of the evidence supporting the mitochondrial vicious cycle model comes from pharmacological experiments in which the modes of mitochondrial enzyme inhibition are far from those observed in real life. Furthermore, recent in vivo evidence does not support this model. In this review, we focus on the relationship among the components of the putative vicious cycle, with particular emphasis on the role of mitochondrial defects on oxidative stress.
Loss of function after neurological injury frequently occurs through the interruption of axonal connectivity, rather than through cell loss. Functional deficits persist because a multitude of inhibitory factors in degenerating myelin and astroglial scar prevent axonal growth in the adult brain and spinal cord. Given the high clinical significance of achieving functional recovery through axonal growth, substantial research effort has been, and will be, devoted toward this desirable goal. Unfortunately, the labels commonly used in the literature to categorize post-injury axonal anatomy might hinder advancement. In this article, we present an argument for the importance of developing precise terms that describe axonal growth in terms of the inciting event, the distance of axonal extension and the timing of axonal growth. The phenotypes produced by molecular interventions that overcome astroglial scar or myelin-associated inhibitors are reframed and discussed in this context.
The Nogo receptor (NgR), which was identified as a common receptor for three axon growth inhibitors associated with myelin, has been extensively characterized for its role in triggering growth cone collapse and arresting neurite/axon growth. Recent studies indicate that NgR is also expressed in nonneuronal cells and modulates macrophage responses during inflammation after peripheral nerve injury. In this article, we discuss the possibility that NgR might have wider effects on inflammation in a variety of neurological conditions ranging from central nervous system trauma to diseases such as multiple sclerosis or Alzheimer's disease.
Two experiments explore the color perception of objects in complex scenes. The first experiment examines the color perception of objects across variation in surface gloss. Observers adjusted the color appearance of a matte sphere to match that of a test sphere. Across conditions we varied the body color and glossiness of the test sphere. The data indicate that observers do not simply match the average light reflected from the test. Indeed, the visual system compensates for the physical effect of varying the gloss, so that appearance is stabilized relative to what is predicted by the spatial average. The second experiment examines how people perceive color across locations on an object. We replaced the test sphere with a soccer ball that had one of its hexagonal faces colored. Observers were asked to adjust the match sphere have the same color appearance as this test patch. The test patch could be located at either an upper or lower location on the soccer ball. In addition, we varied the surface gloss of the entire soccer ball (including the test patch). The data show that there is an effect of test patch location on observers' color matching, but this effect is small compared to the physical change in the average light reflected from the test patch across the two locations. In addition, the effect of glossy highlights on the color appearance of the test patch was consistent with the results from Experiment 1.
Electrophysiological and molecular genetic studies have shown that howler monkeys (Alouatta) are unique among all studied platyrrhines: they have the potential to display trichromatic color vision among males and females. This study examined the color discrimination abilities of four howler monkeys (Alouatta caraya) through a series of tasks involving a behavioral paradigm of discrimination learning. The animals were maintained and housed as a group in the Zoological Gardens of Braslia and were tested in their own home cages. Stimuli consisting of pairs of Munsell color chips were presented in random brightness values to assure that discriminations were based on color rather than brightness cues. All the animals (three males, one female) successfully discriminated all the stimulus pairs, including those that would be expected to be difficult for a dichromatic monkey. These results are consistent with the earlier predictions suggesting that howler monkeys are routinely trichromatic.
Consider a stereoscopic display simulating two rectangular patches, the lower frontoparallel and the upper slanted around the vertical axis. When the two patches are amodally completed and appear as the unoccluded parts of a smooth surface partially hidden by a foreground frontoparallel surface, either real or illusory, their relative slant is underestimated with respect to a baseline condition in which they are perceived as separate rectangles. Slant assimilation was studied in three experiments using with- vs. without-occluder displays and two methods, slant matching and speeded classification of twist direction. In Experiments 1 and 2 we found slant assimilation in with-occluder displays and slant contrast in without-occluder displays. In Experiment 3 we isolated a component of slant assimilation attributable to the mere presence of the occluder. Twist classification performance was impaired even when edge geometry hindered amodal completion, but the performance loss was larger when surface patches were amodally completed. To minimize the required amount of torsion, input fragments are misperceived, indicating that in limiting conditions amodal completion is mediated by approximation rather than interpolation. Slant assimilation decreases as twist angle increases, up to a limit above which the visual system does not support the formation of a smooth amodal surface with torsion.

In the mammalian visual system, sensory experience is widely thought to sculpt cortical circuits during a precise critical period. In contrast, subcortical regions, such as the thalamus, were thought to develop at earlier ages in a vision-independent manner. Recent studies at the retinogeniculate synapse, however, have demonstrated an influence of vision on the formation of synaptic circuits in the thalamus. In mice, dark rearing from birth does not alter normal developmental maturation of the connection between retina and thalamus. However, deprivation 20 d after birth [postnatal day 20 (p20)] resulted in dramatic weakening of synaptic strength and an increase in the number of retinal inputs that innervate a thalamic relay neuron. Here, by quantifying changes in synaptic strength and connectivity in response to different time windows of deprivation, we find that several days of vision after eye opening is necessary for triggering experience-dependent plasticity. Shorter periods of visual experience do not permit similar experience-dependent synaptic reorganization. Furthermore, changes in connectivity are rapidly reversible simply by restoring normal vision. However, similar plasticity did not occur when shifting the onset of deprivation to p25. Although synapses still weakened, recruitment of additional retinal inputs no longer occurred. Therefore, synaptic circuits in the visual thalamus are unexpectedly malleable during a late developmental period, after the time when normal synapse elimination and pruning has occurred. This thalamic sensitive period overlaps temporally with experience-dependent changes in the cortex, suggesting that subcortical plasticity may influence cortical responses to sensory experience.
The hippocampus is essential for spatial navigation, which may involve sequential learning. However, how the hippocampus encodes new sequences in familiar environments is unknown. To study the impact of novel spatial sequences on the activity of hippocampal neurons, we monitored hippocampal ensembles while rats learned to switch from two familiar trajectories to a new one in a familiar environment. Here, we show that this novel spatial experience induces two types of changes in firing rates, but not locations of hippocampal place cells. First, place-cell firing rates on the two familiar trajectories start to change before the actual behavioral switch to the new trajectory. Second, repeated exposure on the new trajectory is associated with an increased dependence of place-cell firing rates on immediate past locations. The result suggests that sequence encoding in the hippocampus may involve integration of information about the recent past into current state.
The fast-activating/deactivating voltage-gated potassium channel Kv3.3 (Kcnc3) is expressed in various neuronal cell types involved in motor function, including cerebellar Purkinje cells. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 13 (SCA13) patients carrying dominant-negative mutations in Kcnc3 and Kcnc3-null mutant mice both display motor incoordination, suggested in mice by increased lateral deviation while ambulating and slips on a narrow beam. Motor skill learning, however, is spared. Mice lacking Kcnc3 also exhibit muscle twitches. In addition to broadened spikes, recordings of Kcnc3-null Purkinje cells revealed fewer spikelets in complex spikes and a lower intraburst frequency. Targeted reexpression of Kv3.3 channels exclusively in Purkinje cells in Kcnc3-null mice as well as in mice also heterozygous for Kv3.1 sufficed to restore simple spike brevity along with normal complex spikes and to rescue specifically coordination. Therefore, spike parameters requiring Kv3.3 function in Purkinje cells are involved in the ataxic null phenotype and motor coordination, but not motor learning.
Astrocytes serve various important functions in the CNS, but the molecular mechanisms of their generation and maturation are still enigmatic. Here, we show that Pax6, a key transcription factor that controls neurogenesis, also regulates proliferation, differentiation, and migration of astrocytes in the CNS. We first reveal that Pax6 is expressed in astrocytes during development as well as postnatally in the wild-type mouse. Astrocytes derived from Pax6 homozygous mutants (Sey/Sey) mice exhibited aberrant proliferation together with immature differentiation, both in vivo and in vitro, with higher migration potential in scratch-wound assays in vitro. Furthermore, a larger population of Sey/Sey astrocytes expresses neural stem cell markers such as nestin, Sox2, and prominin-1. These phenotypes of Pax6-deficient astrocytes putatively occur via higher Akt activity. Thus, the breakdown of Pax6 function induces the retention of neural stem-like characteristics and inhibits astrocyte maturation.


In order to better understand the synaptic nature of the integration process operated by cortical neurons during sensory processing, it is necessary to devise quantitative methods which allow one to infer the level of conductance change evoked by the sensory stimulation and, consequently, the dynamics of the balance between excitation and inhibition. Such detailed measurements are required to characterize the static versus dynamic nature of the non-linear interactions triggered at the single cell level by sensory stimulus. This paper primarily reviews experimental data from our laboratory based on direct conductance measurements during whole-cell patch clamp recordings in two experimental preparations: (1) in vitro, during electrical stimulation in the visual cortex of the rat and (2) in vivo, during visual stimulation, in the primary visual cortex of the anaesthetized cat. Both studies demonstrate that shunting inhibition is expressed as well in vivo as in vitro. Our in vivo data reveals that a high level of diversity is observed in the degree of interaction (from linear to non-linear) and in the temporal interplay (from push-pull to synchronous) between stimulus-driven excitation (E) and inhibition (I). A detailed analysis of the E/I balance during evoked spike activity further shows that the firing strength results from a simultaneous decrease of evoked inhibition and increase of excitation. Secondary, the paper overviews the various computational methods used in the literature to assess conductance dynamics, measured in current clamp as well as in voltage clamp in different neocortical areas and species, and discuss the consistency of their estimations.
Cortical neurons are subject to sustained and irregular synaptic activity which causes important fluctuations of the membrane potential (V(m)). We review here different methods to characterize this activity and its impact on spike generation. The simplified, fluctuating point-conductance model of synaptic activity provides the starting point of a variety of methods for the analysis of intracellular V(m) recordings. In this model, the synaptic excitatory and inhibitory conductances are described by Gaussian-distributed stochastic variables, or &quot;colored conductance noise&quot;. The matching of experimentally recorded V(m) distributions to an invertible theoretical expression derived from the model allows the extraction of parameters characterizing the synaptic conductance distributions. This analysis can be complemented by the matching of experimental V(m) power spectral densities (PSDs) to a theoretical template, even though the unexpected scaling properties of experimental PSDs limit the precision of this latter approach. Building on this stochastic characterization of synaptic activity, we also propose methods to qualitatively and quantitatively evaluate spike-triggered averages of synaptic time-courses preceding spikes. This analysis points to an essential role for synaptic conductance variance in determining spike times. The presented methods are evaluated using controlled conductance injection in cortical neurons in vitro with the dynamic-clamp technique. We review their applications to the analysis of in vivo intracellular recordings in cat association cortex, which suggest a predominant role for inhibition in determining both sub- and supra-threshold dynamics of cortical neurons embedded in active networks.
Several methods and algorithms have recently been proposed that allow for the systematic evaluation of simple neuron models from intracellular or extracellular recordings. Models built in this way generate good quantitative predictions of the future activity of neurons under temporally structured current injection. It is, however, difficult to compare the advantages of various models and algorithms since each model is designed for a different set of data. Here, we report about one of the first attempts to establish a benchmark test that permits a systematic comparison of methods and performances in predicting the activity of rat cortical pyramidal neurons. We present early submissions to the benchmark test and discuss implications for the design of future tests and simple neurons models.
We propose a method for the time-resolved joint analysis of two related aspects of single neuron variability, the spiking irregularity measured by the squared coefficient of variation (CV(2)) of the ISIs and the trial-by-trial variability of the spike count measured by the Fano factor (FF). We provide a calibration of both estimators using the theory of renewal processes, and verify it for spike trains recorded in vitro. Both estimators exhibit a considerable bias for short observations that count less than about 5-10 spikes on average. The practical difficulty of measuring the CV(2) in rate modulated data can be overcome by a simple procedure of spike train demodulation which was tested in numerical simulations and in real spike trains. We propose to test neuronal spike trains for deviations from the null-hypothesis FF=CV(2). We show that cortical pyramidal neurons, recorded under controlled stationary input conditions in vitro, comply with this assumption. Performing a time-resolved joint analysis of CV(2) and FF of a single unit recording from the motor cortex of a behaving monkey we demonstrate how the dynamic change of their quantitative relation can be interpreted with respect to neuron intrinsic and extrinsic factors that influence cortical variability in vivo. Finally, we discuss the effect of several additional factors such as serial interval correlation and refractory period on the empiric relation of FF and CV(2).
A variety of software and hardware systems have been developed to inject controlled electrical conductances into excitable cells, to investigate the physiological mechanisms of action potential generation. These systems face several challenges: the need to model complex conductances, including voltage-gated ion channels, synaptic conductances controlled by electrical models of entire cells or even networks of cells, to do so rapidly and stably, with precisely controlled update intervals of 20micros or less, and to present an easy and flexible interface to the user, allowing new experiments to be designed and executed easily. In this paper I describe a new software system (SM-2) which is designed to meet these requirements, and which runs on the current generation of digital-signal-processing (DSP) analog input-output I/O boards, hosted in Windows PCs. Its key innovation is its configurability by simple user-written text scripts, or &quot;scriptability&quot;, which gives it a high flexibility of purpose, and allows non-programmers the capacity to rapidly design and use new Hodgkin-Huxley-type active conductances, conductances with arbitrary current-voltage relationships, Markov process conductance mechanisms with user-specified rate matrices, and hybrid networks of virtual cells. At the same time, the hardware platform allows this to be achieved with a fast and accurately timed input-computation-output cycle.
Dopamine is a major neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) that regulates neuroendocrine functions, locomotor activity, cognition and emotion. The dopamine system has been extensively studied because dysfunction of this system is linked to various pathological conditions including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, Tourette's syndrome, and drug addiction. Accordingly, intense efforts to delineate the full complement of signaling pathways mediated by individual receptor subtypes have been pursued. Dopamine D1-like receptors are of particular interest because they are the most abundant dopamine receptors in CNS. Recent work suggests that dopamine signaling could be regulated via dopamine receptor interacting proteins (DRIPs). Unraveling these DRIPs involved in the dopamine system may provide a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying CNS disorders related to dopamine system dysfunction and may help identify novel therapeutic targets.

A patient with distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV) exhibited Parkinsonism with a severe writing tremor that responded poorly to levodopa. Molecular genetic analysis revealed that the patient had the D176V/V572L compound heterozygous mutation in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) gene. Histopathological examination of a biopsied muscle specimen yielded findings compatible with those of DMRV, which is characterized by the presence of rimmed vacuoles without inflammatory cell infiltration in muscle fibers. The finding of normal cardiac meta-iodobenzylguanide uptake makes the possibility of incidental Parkinson's disease in this patient unlikely. These observations raise the possibility that atypical Parkinsonism is a rare complication of DMRV associated with GNE mutation.
Precise placement of the electrodes for stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in Parkinson's disease (PD) is crucial for the therapeutic benefit. As a result of the mistargeting and misplacement of the electrodes during surgery in 2 patients with PD, we have characterized the neuronal firing in the red nucleus (RN) and observed the effects of stimulation of this nucleus. Although the neuronal firing (mean +/- SD) of the RN (34 +/- 4.4 Hz) resembles that described for the STN (33.1 +/- 16.6 Hz), a higher proportion of cells responded to the movement of the contralateral limbs (70-80%). Stimulation in the area of the RN-induced intolerable side effects without motor improvement. We conclude that the STN and RN have some similar neurophysiological features but can be distinguished intraoperatively. This initial description of the physiological characteristics of the RN in humans will draw attention to the possibility of confusing the RN and STN during intraoperative recording.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) tend to speak monotonously with minor modulation of pitch and intensity. The goal of this study was to find out whether these speech changes can be explained mainly by motor impairment, i.e. akinesia and rigidity of the articulatory apparatus, or whether alterations of emotional processing play an additional role. Sixteen patients with mild PD and 16 healthy controls (HC) were compared. Fundamental frequencies (pitch) and intensities (loudness) were determined as (1) maximal upper and lower values achieved in nonemotional speech (phonation capacity), (2) upper and lower values used when speaking &quot;Anna&quot; in emotional intonation (neutral, sad, happy) as requested (production task), or (3) when imitating a professional speaker (imitation task). Although groups did not significantly differ in their phonation capacity, patients showed a significantly smaller pitch and intensity range than HC in the production task. In the imitation task, however, ranges were again similar. These results suggest that alterations of emotional processing contribute to speech changes in PD, especially regarding emotional prosody, in addition to motor impairment.
Annual meeting abstracts published by scientific societies often contain rich arrays of information that can be computationally mined and distilled to elucidate the state and dynamics of the subject field. We extracted and processed abstract data from the Society for Neuroscience (SFN) annual meeting abstracts during the period 2001-2006 in order to gain an objective view of contemporary neuroscience. An important first step in the process was the application of data cleaning and disambiguation methods to construct a unified database, since the data were too noisy to be of full utility in the raw form initially available. Using natural language processing, text mining, and other data analysis techniques, we then examined the demographics and structure of the scientific collaboration network, the dynamics of the field over time, major research trends, and the structure of the sources of research funding. Some interesting findings include a high geographical concentration of neuroscience research in the north eastern United States, a surprisingly large transient population (66% of the authors appear in only one out of the six studied years), the central role played by the study of neurodegenerative disorders in the neuroscience community, and an apparent growth of behavioral/systems neuroscience with a corresponding shrinkage of cellular/molecular neuroscience over the six year period. The results from this work will prove useful for scientists, policy makers, and funding agencies seeking to gain a complete and unbiased picture of the community structure and body of knowledge encapsulated by a specific scientific domain.



Neuroligins (NLs) are postsynaptic cell-adhesion molecules that are implicated in humans in autism spectrum disorders because the genes encoding NL3 and NL4 are mutated in rare cases of familial autism. NLs are highly conserved evolutionarily, except that no NL4 was detected in the currently available mouse genome sequence assemblies. We now demonstrate that mice express a distant NL4 variant that rapidly evolved from other mammalian NL4 genes and that exhibits sequence variations even between different mouse strains. Despite its divergence, mouse NL4 binds neurexins and is transported into dendritic spines, suggesting that the core properties of NLs are retained in this divergent NL isoform. The selectively rapid evolution of NL4 in mice suggests that its function in the brain is under less stringent control than that of other NLs, shedding light on why its mutation in autism spectrum disorder patients is not lethal, but instead leads to a discrete developmental brain disorder.
Epsin has been suggested to act as an alternate adaptor in several endocytic pathways. Its role in synaptic vesicle recycling remains, however, unclear. Here, we examined the role of epsin in this process by using the lamprey reticulospinal synapse as a model system. We characterized a lamprey ortholog of epsin 1 and showed that it is accumulated at release sites at rest and also at clathrin-coated pits in the periactive zone during synaptic activity. Disruption of epsin interactions, by presynaptic microinjection of antibodies to either the epsin-N-terminal homology domain (ENTH) or the clathrin/AP2 binding region (CLAP), caused profound loss of vesicles in stimulated synapses. CLAP antibody-injected synapses displayed a massive accumulation of distorted coated structures, including coated vacuoles, whereas in synapses perturbed with ENTH antibodies, very few coated structures were found. In both cases coated pits on the plasma membrane showed a shift to early intermediates (shallow coated pits) and an increase in size. Moreover, in CLAP antibody-injected synapses flat clathrin-coated patches occurred on the plasma membrane. We conclude that epsin is involved in clathrin-mediated synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Our results support a model, based on in vitro studies, suggesting that epsin coordinates curvature generation with coat assembly and further indicating that epsin limits clathrin coat assembly to the size of newly formed vesicles. We propose that these functions of epsin 1 provide an additional mechanism for generation of uniformly sized synaptic vesicles.
Although Hox gene expression has been linked to motoneuron identity, a role of these genes in development of the spinal sensory system remained undocumented. Hoxb genes are expressed at high levels in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Hoxb8 null mutants manifest a striking phenotype of excessive grooming and hairless lesions on the lower back. Applying local anesthesia underneath the hairless skin suppressed excessive grooming, indicating that this behavior depends on peripheral nerve activity. Functional ablation of mouse Hoxb8 also leads to attenuated response to nociceptive and thermal stimuli. Although spinal ganglia were normal, a lower postmitotic neural count was found in the dorsalmost laminae at lumbar levels around birth, leading to a smaller dorsal horn and a correspondingly narrowed projection field of nociceptive and thermoceptive afferents. The distribution of the dorsal neuronal cell types that we assayed, including neurons expressing the itch-specific gastrin-releasing peptide receptor, was disorganized in the lumbar region of the mutant. BrdU labeling experiments and gene-expression studies at stages around the birth of these neurons suggest that loss of Hoxb8 starts impairing development of the upper laminae of the lumbar spinal cord at approximately embryonic day (E)15.5. Because none of the neuronal markers used was unexpressed in the adult dorsal horn, absence of Hoxb8 does not impair neuronal differentiation. The data therefore suggest that a lower number of neurons in the upper spinal laminae and neuronal disorganization in the dorsal horn underlie the sensory defects including the excessive grooming of the Hoxb8 mutant.
Studies of spatial perception during visual saccades have demonstrated compressions of visual space around the saccade target. Here we psychophysically investigated perception of auditory space during rapid head turns, focusing on the &quot;perisaccadic&quot; interval. Using separate perceptual and behavioral response measures we show that spatial compression also occurs for rapid head movements, with the auditory spatial representation compressing by up to 50%. Similar to observations in the visual system, this occurred only when spatial locations were measured by using a perceptual response; it was absent for the behavioral measure involving a nose-pointing task. These findings parallel those observed in vision during saccades and suggest that a common neural mechanism may subserve these distortions of space in each modality.
The mosquito Anopheles gambiae is the principal Afrotropical vector for human malaria. A central component of its vectorial capacity is the ability to maintain sufficient populations of adults. During both adult and preadult (larval) stages, the mosquitoes depend on the ability to recognize and respond to chemical cues that mediate feeding and survival. In this study, we used a behavioral assay to identify a range of odorant-specific responses of An. gambiae larvae that are dependent on the integrity of the larval antennae. Parallel molecular analyses have identified a subset of the An. gambiae odorant receptors (AgOrs) that are localized to discrete neurons within the larval antennae and facilitate odor-evoked responses in Xenopus oocytes that are consistent with the larval behavioral spectrum. These studies shed light on chemosensory-driven behaviors and represent molecular and cellular characterization of olfactory processes in mosquito larvae. These advances may ultimately enhance the development of vector control strategies, targeting olfactory pathways in larval-stage mosquitoes to reduce the catastrophic effects of malaria and other diseases.

Effects of the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (0.1; 0.3; 1.0 mg/kg i.p.) on operant ethanol self-administration alone and in combination with the non-competitive NMDA antagonist memantine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) were studied in rats. Acute administration of naltrexone (0.1; 0.3; 1.0 mg/kg i.p.) inhibited ethanol self-administration in a dose-dependent manner. Memantine (1.0 mg/kg) significantly enhanced the effects of naltrexone at 0.1 mg/kg, failing per se to inhibit ethanol consumption. Thus, low, sub-effective dose of memantine in combination with low doses of naltrexone blocked the reinforcing properties of ethanol in rats. It is suggested that the combination of sub-effective doses of memantine and naltrexone may have therapeutic value in the treatment of alcoholism particularly in a subgroup of alcoholic patients who have high sensitivity to the adverse side effects of naltrexone.
Evidence is emerging that protein kinase C (PKC) plays a crucial role in the neural processing of memory information and that PKC deficits underlie certain types of memory impairment, including Alzheimer's dementia. Chronic activation of PKC isozymes with bryostatin-1 induces synthesis of the proteins that are involved in memory consolidation and, therefore, may represent a pharmacological strategy for antidementic and memory therapies. PKC isozymes are, however, sensitive to oxidants, whose generation is also increased by PKC activation. Oxidants may be responsible for some adverse effects with PKC activators, potentially limiting their antidementic and memory-enhancing &quot;benefit&quot;. We investigated the effects of intravenous bryostatin-1, a potent PKC activator, and of its co-administration with oral alpha-tocopherol, a potent antioxidant, on spatial learning and memory. Bryostatin-1 at a chronic and intravenous dose of 10 microg/m2 (2 doses/week for 3 weeks) alone did not significantly affect the spatial learning and memory, but showed a synergistic effect when co-administered with alpha-tocopherol (60 IU/kg, orally and daily for 3 weeks), a potent lipid-soluble antioxidant and also a possible inhibitor of PKC in peripheral tissues. Acute administration of the same doses, however, did not have obvious influence on the learning and memory. These results provide support for the strategy of achieving memory-enhancing benefits with PKC activators and restricting their oxidant-related adverse effects with alpha-tocopherol co-administration. These agents, therefore, may hold significant potential as new, combined antidementic and memory therapeutics in the future.
The discovery of the actomyosin system provided for the first time a model system that enabled the study of the role of the muscle protein components in the contraction and relaxation cycle to be undertaken. It soon became apparent that ATP was essential for both processes but progress really began when it became clear that components both in the myofibrillar and sarcoplasmic fractions were involved in relaxation. After it was apparent that a trace of calcium was required for the activation of the MgATPase of the myofibrils it was shown that an active calcium pump was located in the sarcoplasmic reticulum. The report by Ebashi in 1963 that a new myofibrillar protein, troponin, was the target for calcium opened up the investigation of the calcium control of the MgATPase. Troponin was shown to be a complex of troponin C, I and T, each protein being under individual genetic control and existing in isoforms specific for the muscle type. The unique forms of troponin I and T in cardiac muscle make them the biomarkers of choice for cardiac injury.
The processes by which Professor Setsuro Ebashi accomplished his great work are described. Independently of Marsh, Ebashi discovered the relaxing factor in homogenized muscle and showed that it has a lipid-containing particulate fraction with ATPase activity, later identified as the sarcoplasmic reticulum. He then solved the mechanism of relaxation of the relaxing factor through the following findings. A minute amount of calcium ion (Ca(2+)) is necessary for the physiological contractile reaction. The relaxing factor strongly accumulates Ca(2+) in the presence of ATP and sufficiently removes Ca(2+) from the contractile system to bring about relaxation. Ebashi found that the contractile reaction of myosin and actin is regulated by Ca(2+) only in the presence of a tropomyosin-like protein factor, which he later showed to be a complex of tropomyosin and a new protein, troponin. He proved that troponin is the Ca(2+)-receptive protein and proposed the correct scheme for the molecular mechanism of regulation of contraction and relaxation.



Professor Ebashi's epic work on the biochemistry of the regulation of muscle contraction began in the early 1950's, during the same period that work on the molecular basis of force production in muscle was also beginning. The latter work started in two MRC Research Units in the UK, and was continued jointly by the two workers from those Units who had, independently, gone to MIT to learn the new techniques of electron microscopy and to apply them to muscle. In a somewhat similar fashion, Professor Ebashi also spent one or two years in the USA, continuing his work on the role of calcium in muscle regulation in Lippman's laboratory, before returning to Japan to achieve the great breakthroughs in this work during the 1960's. Hanson and Huxley, after putting forward the overlapping actin and myosin filament arrays model for the striated muscle sarcomere, and subsequently the sliding filament model of muscle contraction (simultaneously with A.F Huxley and R. Niedergerke), returned to the UK to pursue detailed structural studies in separate Research Units, in a mixture of consultation, collaboration, and competition, during the later 1950's and throughout the 1960's. However, the path to enlightenment described here in some detail was somewhat more tortuous than the standard literature perhaps reveals. Nevertheless, by the time of the Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Muscle Contraction in 1972, the two lines of enquiry on regulation itself, and on the tilting cross-bridge model of force production, had arrived at a good deal of common ground, and indeed the identification of troponin and its periodic distribution along the actin filaments had helped resolve a long-standing puzzle in the interpretation of the low angle X-ray diagram. Since then, an enormous amount of remarkable new work has been necessary to establish troponin regulation and the tilting cross-bridge mechanism in molecular detail, but the work in the 1950's and 1960's has provided a firm and accurate basis for our current understanding.
The object of this paper is to trace the growth of a fundamental problem that for a decade hindered the development of several lines of muscle research: the molecular mechanism that allows and controls contraction and relaxation of muscle fiber. Emphasis is placed on the difficulties to be overcome; thus the paper records not only the achievements and successes, but also the unavoidable failure and disappointments. The account highlights the essential contribution of Setsuro Ebashi to find the solution of the problem.


Cytoplasm-nucleus shuttling of phosphoinositol 3-kinase enhancer (PIKE) is known to correlate directly with its cellular functions. However, the molecular mechanism governing this shuttling is not known. In this work, we demonstrate that PIKE is a new member of split pleckstrin homology (PH) domain-containing proteins. The structure solved in this work reveals that the PIKE PH domain is split into halves by a positively charged nuclear localization sequence. The PIKE PH domain binds to the head groups of di- and triphosphoinositides with similar affinities. Lipid membrane binding of the PIKE PH domain is further enhanced by the positively charged nuclear localization sequence, which is juxtaposed to the phosphoinositide head group-binding pocket of the domain. We demonstrate that the cytoplasmic-nuclear shuttling of PIKE is dynamically regulated by the balancing actions of the lipid-binding property of both the split PH domain and the nuclear targeting function of its nuclear localization sequence.

Three experiments explored the contribution of the cortico-striatal system and the hippocampus system to the acquisition of solutions to simultaneous instrumental odor discriminations. Inactivation of the dorsal striatum after rats had reached criterion on a three problem probabilistic set of discriminations--A (80%) vs. B (20%), C (67%) vs. D (33%), E(67%) vs. F(33%)--impaired test performance and disrupted performance when the rats were tested with novel cue combinations (C vs. F and E vs. D), where control animals chose C and F. In contrast, inactivating the dorsal hippocampus enhanced performance on this task and on a deterministic discrimination A (100%) vs. B (0%). These results are consistent with the complementary learning systems view, which assumes that the cortico-striatal and hippocampal system capture information in parallel. How this information combines to influence task performance depends on the compatibility of the content captured by each system. These results suggest that the trial-specific information captured by the hippocampal system can be incompatible with the across-trial integration of trial outcomes captured by the cortico-striatal system.
Previous studies have shown that medial prefrontal cortical regions, such as the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), play a key role in the expression of remote spatial and contextual memory. To evaluate whether this role is conserved in hippocampal-independent tasks we trained mice in the conditioned taste aversion (CTA) paradigm. Lidocaine-induced inactivation of the ACC blocked the expression of CTA tested one month (remote), but not one day (recent), after conditioning with either a weak or strong unconditioned stimulus (US). These data suggest that the ACC may play a conserved role in remote memory, regardless of memory strength or content.
The differentiation of discrete and continuous movement is one of the pillars of motor behavior classification. Discrete movements have a definite beginning and end, whereas continuous movements do not have such discriminable end points. In the past decade there has been vigorous debate whether this classification implies different control processes. This debate up until the present has been empirically based. Here, we present an unambiguous non-empirical classification based on theorems in dynamical system theory that sets discrete and continuous movements apart. Through computational simulations of representative modes of each class and topological analysis of the flow in state space, we show that distinct control mechanisms underwrite discrete and fast rhythmic movements. In particular, we demonstrate that discrete movements require a time keeper while fast rhythmic movements do not. We validate our computational findings experimentally using a behavioral paradigm in which human participants performed finger flexion-extension movements at various movement paces and under different instructions. Our results demonstrate that the human motor system employs different timing control mechanisms (presumably via differential recruitment of neural subsystems) to accomplish varying behavioral functions such as speed constraints.
Many studies have investigated sex differences in language lateralization. Despite the large number of investigations, controversy about the presence of sex differences in lateralization remains. This study aims to provide a complete overview of sex differences in several reflections of language lateralization: handedness, asymmetry of the Planum Temporale (PT) and functional lateralization of language, measured by asymmetric performance on dichotic listening tests (Right Ear Advantage) and asymmetry of language activation as measured with functional imaging techniques. Meta-analysis of studies that assessed handedness in males and females yielded more left-handedness in males (mean weighted odds ratio: 1.25, p&lt;0.001). Meta-analysis of studies on PT asymmetry yielded no sex difference (Hedges g=-0.11, p=0.68). Results of the meta-analysis on dichotic listening studies also retrieved no sex difference in lateralization (Hedges g=0.09, p=0.18). When the studies were subdivided according to the paradigm they applied, studies that used the consonant-vowel task yielded a sex difference favouring males, while studies that applied other paradigms yielded no sex difference. The subdivision into applied paradigm largely overlapped with the subdivision into studies that did or did not focus on sex differences as their main topic. The observed sex effect may therefore be caused by publication bias. Meta-analysis of functional imaging studies yielded no sex difference (Hedges g=0.01, p=0.73) in language lateralization. Sub-analyses of studies that applied different paradigms all yielded no sex difference. In conclusion, males are more frequently non-right handed than females, but there is no sex difference in asymmetries of the Planum Temporale, dichotic listening or functional imaging findings during language tasks.
Neuroimaging and neurophysiology evidence suggests that component operations in working memory (WM) emerge from the coordinated interaction of posterior perceptual cortices with heteromodal regions in the prefrontal and parietal cortices. Still, little is known about bottom-up and top-down signaling during the formation and retrieval of WM representations. In the current set of experiments, we combine complementary fMRI and EEG measures to obtain high-resolution spatial and temporal measures of neural activity during WM encoding and retrieval processes. Across both experiments, participants performed a face delayed recognition WM task in which the nature of sensory input across stages was held constant. In experiment 1, we utilized a latency-resolved fMRI approach to assess temporal parameters of the BOLD response during stage-specific encoding and retrieval waveforms. Relative to the latency at encoding, the PFC exhibited an earlier peak of fMRI activity at retrieval showing stage-specific differences in the temporal dynamics of PFC engagement across WM operations. In experiment 2, we analyzed the first 200 ms of the ERP response during this WM task providing a more sensitive temporal measure of these differences. Divergence of the ERP pattern during encoding and retrieval began as early as 60 ms post-stimulus. The parallel fMRI and ERP results during memory-guided decisions support a key role of the PFC in top-down biasing of perceptual processing and reveal rapid differences across WM component operations in the presence of identical bottom-up sensory input.
Here we report an improved, reproducible, simple, rapid, and cost-effective PCR-based DNA synthesis method using short (25-40 bp) overlapping oligodeoxyribonucleotides (oligos). The method involves two steps; (1) assembly of multiple/overlapping oligos by PCR to generate the template DNA and (2) amplification of the template DNA sequence with the two outermost oligos as primers. We have tested this method by synthesizing approximately 35 genes ranging in size between 300 bp and 1700 bp and G+C content from moderate (30%) to high (65%). In addition, we used the method to introduce 29 mutations simultaneously into a single gene. Key to the success of this method is the use of optimized oligo concentrations and the type of DNA polymerase used. This simplified and highly reproducible method is expected to be beneficial for the synthesis of a wide variety of genes.

Despite an increasing focus on the neural basis of human decision making in neuroscience, relatively little attention has been paid to decision making in social settings. Moreover, although human social decision making has been explored in a social psychology context, few neural explanations for the observed findings have been considered. To bridge this gap and improve models of human social decision making, we investigated whether acquiring a good reputation, which is an important incentive in human social behaviors, activates the same reward circuitry as monetary rewards. In total, 19 subjects participated in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments involving monetary and social rewards. The acquisition of one's good reputation robustly activated reward-related brain areas, notably the striatum, and these overlapped with the areas activated by monetary rewards. Our findings support the idea of a &quot;common neural currency&quot; for rewards and represent an important first step toward a neural explanation for complex human social behaviors.
Social hierarchies guide behavior in many species, including humans, where status also has an enormous impact on motivation and health. However, little is known about the underlying neural representation of social hierarchies in humans. In the present study, we identify dissociable neural responses to perceived social rank using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in an interactive, simulated social context. In both stable and unstable social hierarchies, viewing a superior individual differentially engaged perceptual-attentional, saliency, and cognitive systems, notably dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. In the unstable hierarchy setting, additional regions related to emotional processing (amygdala), social cognition (medial prefrontal cortex), and behavioral readiness were recruited. Furthermore, social hierarchical consequences of performance were neurally dissociable and of comparable salience to monetary reward, providing a neural basis for the high motivational value of status. Our results identify neural mechanisms that may mediate the enormous influence of social status on human behavior and health.
Neural activity in the frontal eye fields controls smooth pursuit eye movements, but the relationship between single neuron responses, cortical population responses, and eye movements is not well understood. We describe an approach to dynamically link trial-to-trial fluctuations in neural responses to parallel variations in pursuit and demonstrate that individual neurons predict eye velocity fluctuations at particular moments during the course of behavior, while the population of neurons collectively tiles the entire duration of the movement. The analysis also reveals the strength of correlations in the eye movement predictions derived from pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons and suggests a simple model of cortical processing. These findings constrain the primate cortical code for movement, suggesting that either a few neurons are sufficient to drive pursuit at any given time or that many neurons operate collectively at each moment with remarkably little variation added to motor command signals downstream from the cortex.
Increases in core body temperature promote thermoregulatory cooling by stimulating sweat production and preemptive renal water reabsorption through the release of vasopressin (VP, antidiuretic hormone). The mechanism by which the hypothalamus orchestrates this anticipatory VP release during hyperthermia is unknown but has been linked to a central thermosensory mechanism. Here, we report that thermal stimuli spanning core body temperatures activate a calcium-permeable, ruthenium red- and SB366791-sensitive nonselective cation conductance in hypothalamic VP neurons. This response is associated with a depolarizing receptor potential and an increase in action potential firing rate, indicating that these neurons are intrinsically thermosensitive. The thermosensitivity of VP neurons isolated from trpv1 knockout (Trpv1(-/-)) mice was significantly lower than that of wild-type counterparts. Moreover, Trpv1(-/-) mice showed an impaired VP response to hyperthermia in vivo. Channels encoded by the trpv1 gene thus confer thermosensitivity in central VP neurons and contribute to the thermal control of VP release in vivo.
The existence of multiple nodes in the cortical network that integrate faces and voices suggests that they may be interacting and influencing each other during communication. To test the hypothesis that multisensory responses in auditory cortex are influenced by visual inputs from the superior temporal sulcus (STS), an association area, we recorded local field potentials and single neurons from both structures concurrently in monkeys. The functional interactions between the auditory cortex and the STS, as measured by spectral analyses, increased in strength during presentations of dynamic faces and voices relative to either communication signal alone. These interactions were not solely modulations of response strength, because the phase relationships were significantly less variable in the multisensory condition as well. A similar analysis of functional interactions within the auditory cortex revealed no similar interactions as a function of stimulus condition, nor did a control condition in which the dynamic face was replaced with a dynamic disk mimicking mouth movements. Single neuron data revealed that these intercortical interactions were reflected in the spiking output of auditory cortex and that such spiking output was coordinated with oscillations in the STS. The vast majority of single neurons that were responsive to voices showed integrative responses when faces, but not control stimuli, were presented in conjunction. Our data suggest that the integration of faces and voices is mediated at least in part by neuronal cooperation between auditory cortex and the STS and that interactions between these structures are a fast and efficient way of dealing with the multisensory communication signals.
Previous studies and models of perceptual decision making have largely focused on binary choices. However, we often have to choose from multiple alternatives. To study the neural mechanisms underlying multialternative decision making, we have asked human subjects to make perceptual decisions between multiple possible directions of visual motion. Using a multicomponent version of the random-dot stimulus, we were able to control experimentally how much sensory evidence we wanted to provide for each of the possible alternatives. We demonstrate that this task provides a rich quantitative dataset for multialternative decision making, spanning a wide range of accuracy levels and mean response times. We further present a computational model that can explain the structure of our behavioral dataset. It is based on the idea of a race between multiple integrators to a decision threshold. Each of these integrators accumulates net sensory evidence for a particular choice, provided by linear combinations of the activities of decision-relevant pools of sensory neurons.

L-kynurenine is a metabolic precursor of kynurenic acid, which is one of the few known endogenous N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor inhibitors. In contrast with kynurenic acid, L-kynurenine is transported across the blood-brain barrier, and it may therefore come into consideration as a therapeutic agent in certain neurobiological disorders, e.g. ischaemia-induced events. The present study evaluated the effect of L-kynurenine administration (300 mg/kg i.p.) on the global ischaemic brain cortex both pre- and post-ischemic intervention. The statistical evaluation revealed that L-kynurenine administration beneficially decreased the number of neurones injured per mm(2) in the cortex, not only in the pre-treated animals, but also in those which received L-kynurenine after the ischaemic insult. It is concluded that even the post-traumatic administration of L-kynurenine may be of substantial therapeutic benefit in the treatment of global brain ischaemia. This is the first histological proof of the neuroprotective effect achieved by the post-traumatic administration of L-kynurenine in the global ischaemic cortex.

Failure of axons to regenerate following acute or chronic neuronal injury is attributed to both the inhibitory glial environment and deficient intrinsic ability to re-grow. However, the underlying mechanisms of the latter remain unclear. In this study, we have investigated the role of the mammalian homologue of aspergillus nidulans NudE, Ndel1, emergently viewed as an integrator of the cytoskeleton, in axon regeneration. Ndel1 was synthesized de novo and upregulated in crushed and transected sciatic nerve axons, and, upon injury, was strongly associated with neuronal form of the intermediate filament (IF) Vimentin while dissociating from the mature neuronal IF (Neurofilament) light chain NF-L. Consistent with a role for Ndel1 in the conditioning lesion-induced neurite outgrowth of Dorsal Root Ganglion (DRG) neurons, the long lasting in vivo formation of the neuronal Ndel1/Vimentin complex was associated with robust axon regeneration. Furthermore, local silencing of Ndel1 in transected axons by siRNA severely reduced the extent of regeneration in vivo. Thus, Ndel1 promotes axonal regeneration; activating this endogenous repair mechanism may enhance neuroregeneration during acute and chronic axonal degeneration.

A fundamental challenge in understanding how dendritic spine morphology controls learning and memory has been quantifying three-dimensional (3D) spine shapes with sufficient precision to distinguish morphologic types, and sufficient throughput for robust statistical analysis. The necessity to analyze large volumetric data sets accurately, efficiently, and in true 3D has been a major bottleneck in deriving reliable relationships between altered neuronal function and changes in spine morphology. We introduce a novel system for automated detection, shape analysis and classification of dendritic spines from laser scanning microscopy (LSM) images that directly addresses these limitations. The system is more accurate, and at least an order of magnitude faster, than existing technologies. By operating fully in 3D the algorithm resolves spines that are undetectable with standard two-dimensional (2D) tools. Adaptive local thresholding, voxel clustering and Rayburst Sampling generate a profile of diameter estimates used to classify spines into morphologic types, while minimizing optical smear and quantization artifacts. The technique opens new horizons on the objective evaluation of spine changes with synaptic plasticity, normal development and aging, and with neurodegenerative disorders that impair cognitive function.

Objective: Research into medical and licit drug use in resettled refugee populations is scarce, despite the fact that mental health status often has been found to be poorer than in general populations. Hence the aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of self-rated use of medicine and licit drugs among adults who came to Sweden from Bosnia-Herzegovina (1993/94) and who in 2001 were living in either an urban (low employment context) or a rural (high employment context) region (n=4185). Methods: Prevalence was estimated from a cross-sectional questionnaire distributed to a representative sample (n=650) in 2001 (63.5% response rate). Results: The study population estimates of usage of sedatives (26.5%), sleeping tablets (26.2%) and antidepressants (22.3%) did not differ by gender but did so by region, with a higher urban prevalence. The consumption of alcohol (5.1%) and cigarettes (41.0%) did not differ by region but men reported higher alcohol consumption than women. Conclusion: The high consumption of medicine (compared with general populations) raises the question of treatment efficiency and the need for public health attention and evaluation many years after resettlement. Factors to consider for further research with analytic prerequisites concern indications that regional differences may be influenced, not only by urban employment being lower but also by urban/rural differences in prescription rates and/or access to health care; moreover, there might have been a selection to the urban region of older people, with a more vulnerable family situation, and/or poorer mental health. Finally, the overall alcohol (low) and cigarettes (high) consumption in the study population followed prevalence patterns found in Bosnia-Herzegovina rather than in Sweden.


The brain exhibits coherent, long-range oscillations, and it now appears that these oscillations play a substantial role in neural coding: they can boost the information contained in action potentials by as much as 50%.

The neurosteroid allopregnanolone (3alpha,5alpha-THP) is well characterized as a potentially therapeutic molecule which exerts important neurobiological actions including neuroprotective, antidepressant, anxiolytic, anesthetic and analgesic effects. We have recently observed that neurons and glial cells of the rat spinal cord (SC) contain various key steroidogenic enzymes such as 5alpha-reductase and 3alpha-hydroxysteroid oxido-reductase which are crucial for 3alpha,5alpha-THP biosynthesis. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the rat SC actively produces 3alpha,5alpha-THP. As the key factors regulating neurosteroid production by nerve cells are unknown and because glycine is one of the pivotal inhibitory neurotransmitters in the SC, we investigated glycine effects on 3alpha,5alpha-THP biosynthesis in the rat SC. Glycine markedly stimulated [(3)H]-progesterone conversion into [(3)H]3alpha,5alpha-THP by SC slices. The alkaloid strychnine, well-known as a glycine receptor (Gly-R) antagonist, blocked glycine stimulatory effect on 3alpha,5alpha-THP formation. Gelsemine, another alkaloid containing the same functional groups as strychnine, increased 3alpha,5alpha-THP synthesis. The stimulatory effects of glycine and gelsemine on 3alpha,5alpha-THP production were additive when the two drugs were combined. These results demonstrate that glycine and gelsemine, acting via Gly-R, upregulate 3alpha,5alpha-THP biosynthesis in the SC. The data also revealed a structure-activity relationship of the analogs strychnine and gelsemine on neurosteroidogenesis. Possibilities are opened for glycinergic agents and gelsemine utilization to stimulate selectively 3alpha,5alpha-THP biosynthetic pathways in diseases evoked by a decreased neurosteroidogenic activity of nerve cells.
The current study was designed to reveal the retinotectal pathway in the brain of the echolocating megabat Rousettus aegyptiacus. The retinotectal pathway of other species of megabats shows the primate-like pattern of decussation in the retina; however, it has been reported that the echolocating Rousettus did not share this feature. To test this prior result we injected fluorescent dextran tract tracers into the right (fluororuby) and left (fluoroemerald) superior colliculi of three adult Rousettus. After a 2-week survival period the animals were killed, fixed via transcardial perfusion, and the retinas whole mounted and examined under fluorescent excitation to reveal the pattern of retrograde transport. Red and green labeled retinotectal ganglion cells were found in side-by-side patches on either side of a vertical decussation line in the temporal retina of all six retinas. The Rousettus examined thus exhibited the same pattern of retinal decussation as reported previously for other megabats and primates, but unlike that seen in other mammals. The current result indicates that the prior study appears to have suffered technical problems leading to an incorrect conclusion. The results of our study indicate that, as may be expected, all megabats share the derived retinotectal pathway once thought to be the exclusive domain of primates. The current study provides additional support for the diphyletic origin of the Chiroptera and aligns the megabats phylogenetically as a sister group to primates.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is the principal regulator of blood-borne substance entry into the brain parenchyma. Therefore, BBB leakage, which leads to cerebral edema and influx of toxic substances, is common in pathological conditions such as cerebral ischemia, inflammation, trauma, and tumors. The leakage of BBB after ischemia-reperfusion injury has long been considered to be biphasic, although a considerable amount of discrepancies as for the timing of the second opening does exist among the studies. This led us to evaluate systematically and quantitatively the dynamics of BBB leakage in a rat model of 90-min ischemia-reperfusion, using gadolinium-enhanced (small molecule) magnetic resonance imaging and fluorescent dye Evans Blue (large molecule). BBB leakage was assessed at the following time points after reperfusion: 25 min, 2, 4, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, and 72 h, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 weeks. We observed BBB leakage for both gadolinium and Evans Blue as early as 25 min after reperfusion. Thereafter, BBB remained open for up to 3 weeks for Evans Blue and up to 5 weeks for gadolinium. Our results show that BBB leakage after ischemia-reperfusion injury in the rat is continuous and long-lasting, without any closure up to several weeks. This is the first systematic and extensive study fully demonstrating BBB leakage dynamics following transient brain ischemia and the findings are of major clinical and experimental interest.
A wide variety of human and animal experiments suggest that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is one of the key brain substrates subserving higher order processing of noxious information. However, no sufficient data are now available regarding the mediation by ACC of different levels of pain processing as well as its potential descending modulation of spinal nociception. Using the well-developed rat bee venom (BV) model, the present study evaluated the effect of lesions of bilateral ACC on two levels of spontaneous nociceptive behaviors (spinally-processed persistent paw flinching reflex and supraspinally-processed paw lifting/licking) and heat or mechanical hypersensitivity under the inflammatory pain state. In contrast to the sham lesion group (saline microinjection into the ACC), bilateral complete ACC chemical lesions (kainic acid microinjection into the ACC) significantly decreased the BV-induced paw lifting and licking behavior (less time spent by the animal in paw lifting/licking) but produced no influence upon spinally-processed spontaneous paw flinching reflex (no change in number of paw flinches following subcutaneous BV injection). Moreover, the bilateral ACC lesions relieved the BV-evoked primary thermal or mechanical hypersensitivity compared with the sham control group. However, incomplete lesions of bilateral ACC failed to affect the abovementioned pain-related behaviors. No effects were seen on basal pain sensitivity in either group of rats. Motor coordination, as measured by Rota-Rod treadmill test, was not impaired by bilateral ACC lesions. These results implicate that the ACC area of the brain plays differential roles in the mediation of different levels of spontaneous pain-related behaviors. The present study also provides additional evidence for the ACC-mediated descending facilitation of primary hyperalgesia (pain hypersensitivity) identified in the injured area under inflammatory pain state.
The concentration of intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) influences neuronal properties ranging from excitability to neurotransmitter release. Persistent inflammation is associated with changes in the properties of primary afferent neurons ranging from excitability to transmitter release. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether previously described inflammation-induced changes in excitability and transmitter release are associated with changes in the regulation of [Ca(2+)](i). Acutely dissociated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons harvested from adult rats 3 days following a hind-paw injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) or nave controls, were stimulated with 30 mM K(+) (High K(+)). High K(+) evoked changes in [Ca(2+)](i) were assessed with fura-2 ratiometric microfluorimetry. Subpopulations of DRG neurons were defined by cell body diameter, isolectin B4 (IB4) binding, capsaicin (CAP) sensitivity and target of innervation (1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbo-cyanine perchlorate labeling). Inflammation was associated with significant increases in resting [Ca(2+)](i) and increases in the magnitude and decreases in the decay, of the evoked increase in [Ca(2+)](i). The changes in evoked transients were larger in neurons innervating the site of inflammation. Furthermore, there were differences among subpopulations of DRG neurons with respect to changes in magnitude and/or decay of the evoked transient such that the increase in magnitude was larger in small- and medium-diameter neurons than in large diameter neurons while the decrease in the decay was greater in CAP responsive, IB4 positive, small- and medium-diameter neurons than in CAP unresponsive, IB4 negative and/or large-diameter neurons. These changes in the regulation of [Ca(2+)](i) were not due to inflammation-induced changes in passive or active electrophysiological properties. Importantly, an inflammation-induced increase in evoked Ca(2+) transients in putative nociceptive afferents may contribute to the pain and hyperalgesia associated with persistent inflammation via facilitation of transmitter release from these afferents.
The dorsal striatum (DS) is involved in various forms of learning and memory such as procedural learning, habit learning, reward-association and emotional learning. We have previously reported that bilateral DS lesions disrupt tone fear conditioning (TFC), but not contextual fear conditioning (CFC) [Ferreira TL, Moreira KM, Ikeda DC, Bueno OFA, Oliveira MGM (2003) Effects of dorsal striatum lesions in tone fear conditioning and contextual fear conditioning. Brain Res 987:17-24]. To further elucidate the participation of DS in emotional learning, in the present study, we investigated the effects of bilateral pretest (postraining) electrolytic DS lesions on TFC. Given the well-acknowledged role of the amygdala in emotional learning, we also examined a possible cooperation between DS and the amygdala in TFC, by using asymmetrical electrolytic lesions, consisting of a unilateral lesion of the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA) combined to a contralateral DS lesion. The results show that pre-test bilateral DS lesions disrupt TFC responses, suggesting that DS plays a role in the expression of TFC. More importantly, rats with asymmetrical pre-training lesions were impaired in TFC, but not in CFC tasks. This result was confirmed with muscimol asymmetrical microinjections in DS and CeA, which reversibly inactivate these structures. On the other hand, similar pretest lesions as well as unilateral electrolytic lesions of CeA and DS in the same hemisphere did not affect TFC. Possible anatomical substrates underlying the observed effects are proposed. Overall, the present results underscore that other routes, aside from the well-established CeA projections to the periaqueductal gray, may contribute to the acquisition/consolidation of the freezing response associated to a TFC task. It is suggested that CeA may presumably influence DS processing via a synaptic relay on dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra compacta and retrorubral nucleus. The present observations are also in line with other studies showing that TFC and CFC responses are mediated by different anatomical networks.
Cytokines in brain contribute to the regulation of physiological processes and complex behavior, including sleep. The cytokines that have been most extensively studied with respect to sleep are interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and IL-6. Administration of these cytokines into laboratory animals, or in some cases into healthy human volunteers, increases the amount of time spent in non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. Although antagonizing the IL-1 or TNF systems reduces the amount of time laboratory animals spend in NREM sleep, interactions among these three cytokine systems as they pertain to the regulation of physiological NREM sleep are not well understood. To further elucidate mechanisms in brain by which IL-1beta, TNFalpha, and/or IL-6 contribute to NREM sleep regulation, we injected recombinant murine interleukin-1beta (muIL-1beta) into C57BL/6J mice and into IL-6-deficient mice (IL-6 knockout, KO). IL-6 KO (B6.129S6-Il6(tm1Kopf); n=13) and C57BL/6J mice (n=14) were implanted with telemeters to record the electroencephalogram (EEG) and core body temperature, as well as with indwelling guide cannulae targeted to one of the lateral ventricles. After recovery and habituation, mice were injected intracerebroventricularly just prior to dark onset on different days with either 0.5 microl vehicle (pyrogen-free saline; PFS) or with 0.5 microl PFS containing one of four doses of muIL-1beta (2.5 ng, 5 ng, 10 ng, 50 ng). No mouse received more than two doses of muIL-1beta, and administration of muIL-1beta doses was counter-balanced to eliminate potential order effects. Sleep-wake behavior was determined for 24 h after injections. i.c.v. administration of muIL-1beta increased in NREM sleep of both mouse strains in a dose-related fashion, but the maximal increase was of greater magnitude in C57Bl/6J mice. muIL-1beta induced fever in C57Bl/6J mice but not in IL-6 KO mice. Collectively, these data demonstrate IL-6 is necessary for IL-1 to induce fever, but IL-6 is not necessary for IL-1 to alter NREM sleep.
Working memory (WM) deficits are core symptoms of schizophrenia. Differing behavioral performance is known to represent a potent moderating variable when investigating the neural correlates of working memory in patients with schizophrenia compared with healthy controls. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study examined performance-matched cerebral activity during correct WM retrieval by balancing the mean number of correct responses as well as the mean response times between patients and controls and analyzing remaining correct trials. Forty-one schizophrenia patients and 41 healthy controls performed an event-related Sternberg task allowing for analysis of correctly remembered trials. Correct retrieval was associated with activation in a bilateral fronto-parieto-occipital network comprising mainly the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and superior parietal cortex in controls and, to a weaker degree, in patients. Direct group comparison revealed significantly decreased activations in patients in the posterior (Brodmann area (BA) 31) and anterior (BA 32) cingulate cortex (ACC) and the medial caudate bilaterally when matching for performance. When matching for performance and response speed there was additional hypoactivation in the insula. Mean response times were negatively correlated with cingulate and caudate activation only in controls. Present findings suggest that during efficient WM retrieval processing patients exhibit only slightly impaired activation in a task-specific network containing mainly prefrontal and superior parietal areas. However, hypoactivation of areas predominantly responsible for cognitive control and response execution seems to remain even under performance-matched conditions. Given the relevant role of the caudate and the ACC in dopaminergically mediated executive processing, the results bear crucial implications for the psychopathology of schizophrenia.
Development of the mammalian CNS requires formation and stabilization of neuronal circuits and synaptic connections. Sensory stimulation provided by the environment orchestrates neuronal circuit formation in the waking state. Endogenous sources of activation are also implicated in these processes. Accordingly we hypothesized that sleep, especially rapid eye movement sleep (REMS), the stage characterized by high neuronal activity that is more prominent in development than adulthood, provides endogenous stimulation, which, like sensory input, helps to stabilize and refine neuronal circuits during CNS development. Young (Y: postnatal day (PN) 16) and adolescent (A: PN44) rats were rapid eye movement sleep-deprived (REMSD) by gentle cage-shaking for only 4 h on 3 consecutive days (total 12 h). The effect of REMS deprivation in Y and A rats was tested 3-7 days after the last deprivation session (Y, PN21-25; A, PN49-53) and was compared with younger (immature, I, PN9-12) untreated, age-matched, treated and normal control groups. REMS deprivation negatively affected the stability of long-term potentiation (LTP) in Y but not A animals. LTP instability in Y-REMSD animals was similar to the instability in even the more immature, untreated animals. Utilizing immunoblots, we identified changes in molecular components of glutamatergic synapses known to participate in mechanisms of synaptic refinement and plasticity. Overall, N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 2B (NR2B), N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 2A, AMPA receptor subunit 1 (GluR1), postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95), and calcium/calmodulin kinase II tended to be lower in Y REMSD animals (NR2B, GluR1 and PSD-95 were significantly lower) compared with controls, an effect not present in the A animals. Taken together, these data indicate that early-life REMS deprivation reduces stability of hippocampal neuronal circuits, possibly by hindering expression of mature glutamatergic synaptic components. The findings support a role for REMS in the maturation of hippocampal neuronal circuits.
The role of the cerebellum has been increasingly recognized not only in motor control but in sensory, cognitive and emotional learning and regulation. Purkinje cells, being the sole output from the cerebellar cortex, occupy an integrative position in this network. Plasticity at this level is known to critically involve calcium signaling. In the last few years, electrophysiological study of genetically engineered mice has demonstrated the topical role of several genes encoding calcium-binding proteins (calretinin, calbindin, parvalbumin). Specific inactivation of these genes results in the emergence of a fast network oscillation (ca. 160 Hz) throughout the cerebellar cortex in alert animals, associated with ataxia. This oscillation is produced by synchronization of Purkinje cells along the parallel fiber beam. It behaves as an electrophysiological arrest rhythm, being blocked by sensorimotor stimulation. Pharmacological manipulations showed that the oscillation is blocked by GABA(A) and NMDA antagonists as well as gap junction blockers. This cerebellar network oscillation has also been documented in mouse models of human conditions with complex developmental cerebellar dysfunction, such as Angelman syndrome and fetal alcohol syndrome. Recent evidence suggests a relationship between fast oscillation and cerebellar long term depression (LTD). This may have major implications for future therapeutic targeting.
The Na(+)-driven Cl-HCO(3) exchanger (NDCBE or SLC4A8) is a member of the solute carrier 4 (SLC4) family of HCO(3)(-) transporters, which includes products of 10 genes with similar sequences. Most SLC4 members play important roles in regulating intracellular pH (pH(i)). Physiological studies suggest that NDCBE is a major pH(i) regulator in at least hippocampal (HC) pyramidal neurons. We generated a polyclonal rabbit antibody directed against the first 18 residues of the cytoplasmic N terminus (Nt) of human NDCBE. By Western blotting, the antibody distinguishes NDCBE-as a purified Nt peptide or a full-length transporter (expressed in Xenopus oocytes)-from other Na(+)-coupled HCO(3)(-) transporters. By Western blotting, the antiserum recognizes an approximately 135-kDa band in several brain regions of adult mice: the cerebral cortex (CX), subcortex (SCX), cerebellum (CB), and HC. In CX, PNGase F treatment reduces the molecular weight to approximately 116 kDa. By immunocytochemistry, affinity-purified (AP) NDCBE antibody stains the plasma membrane of neuron cell bodies and processes of rat HC neurons in primary culture as well as freshly dissociated mouse HC neurons. The AP antibody does not detect substantial NDCBE levels in freshly dissociated HC astrocytes, or astrocytes in HC or CB sections. By immunohistochemistry, the AP antibody recognizes high levels of NDCBE in neurons of CX, HC (including pyramidal neurons in Cornu Ammonis (CA)1-3 and dentate gyrus), substantial nigra, medulla, cerebellum (especially Purkinje and granular cells), and the basolateral membrane of fetal choroid plexus. Thus, NDCBE is in a position to contribute substantially to pH(i) regulation in multiple CNS neurons.
The purpose of this study was to further address the hypothesis that ethanol activates GABAergic neurons in specific brain neurocircuits that mediate motivated behavior and control of action, such as the central extended amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received habituation to 7 days of daily intragastric administration of water (5 ml/kg) followed by a single acute intragastric dose of ethanol (2.5 g/kg) or water then, 2 h later, by paraformaldehyde perfusion. Rats left undisturbed in the animal room throughout the experiment were also perfused (naive group). Brain sections were processed for single Fos immunohistochemistry or dual Fos immunohistochemistry/glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) mRNA in situ hybridization. Intragastric water administration increased the number of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the infralimbic cortex and lateral part of the central nucleus of the amygdala compared with the naive group. Ethanol administration increased the number of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the infralimbic (+57.5%) and prelimbic (+105.3%) cortices, nucleus accumbens shell region (+88.2%), medial part of the central nucleus of the amygdala (+160%), and lateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (+198.8%) compared with the water-treated group. In the nucleus accumbens shell region, central nucleus of the amygdala, and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, more than 80% of Fos-immunoreactive neurons were GABAergic after ethanol administration. In contrast, in the prelimbic cortex, 75% of Fos-immunoreactive neurons were not GABAergic. These results constitute new evidence for region-specific functional interactions between ethanol and GABAergic neurons.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a potent hematopoietic factor. Recently, this factor has been shown to exhibit neuroprotective effects on many CNS injuries. Spinal cord ischemic injury that frequently results in paraplegia is a major cause of morbidity after thoracic aorta operations. In the present study, we examined the neuroprotective role of G-CSF on spinal cord ischemia-induced neurological dysfunctions and changes in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and Akt signaling pathways in the spinal cord. Spinal cord ischemia was induced in male Wistar rats by occluding the descending aorta with a 2F Fogarty catheter for 12 min 30 s. Immediately after ischemia surgery, the rats were administered G-CSF (10 mug) or saline by intrathecal (i.t.) injection. The rats were divided into four groups: control, ischemia plus saline, ischemia plus G-CSF and G-CSF alone. The neurological dysfunctions were assessed by calculating the motor deficit index after ischemia surgery. The expressions of MAPK and Akt were studied using Western blotting and double immunohistochemistry. First, we observed that ischemia plus i.t. G-CSF can significantly reduce the motor function defects and downregulate phospho-p38 and phospho-c-Jun N-terminal kinase protein expressions-this can be compared with the ischemia plus saline group. In addition, G-CSF inhibited the ischemia-induced activation of p38 in the astrocytes. Furthermore, we concluded that i.t. G-CSF produced a significant increase in phospho-Akt and phospho-ERK in the motor neurons and exhibited beneficial effects on the spinal cord ischemia-induced neurological defects.
Recent behavioral studies in monkeys and humans have shown that holding an item in spatial working memory may lead to sustained and spatially selective prolongation of reaction times (RTs) to visual stimuli presented during the memory delay. In order to resolve the seeming contradiction between these findings and current theories on the interaction of working memory and attentional orienting, it has been hypothesized that memory-dependent modulation of orienting may be the net effect of superposed facilitatory and inhibitory mechanisms. Their relative strength during the memory delay may determine whether RTs to visual stimuli presented during the memory delay are shortened or prolonged. Here, we expand on this hypothesis by investigating the spatial distribution of memory-dependent inhibition with behavioral data from normal human subjects. The experiment consisted of a combination of an oculomotor spatial working memory task (memory-guided saccade task, 6-s delay) and a visual discrimination task (performed 1500, 2500, or 3500 ms after presentation of the memory cue). RTs to discrimination stimuli were analyzed as a function of memory-guided saccade amplitude. By fitting polynomial approximations to our data we show that the spatial distribution of memory-dependent inhibition of orienting significantly differs from a monotonic gradient across the visual field. Instead, we demonstrate the existence of a central inhibitory peak surrounded by a facilitatory annulus, forming a transient &quot;inverted Mexican hat&quot; profile, which mirror-images findings from recent studies on the spatial distribution of attention. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis of a highly flexible modulation of orienting in which both the signs and spatial distribution of memory-dependent bias signals are adapted to behavioral demands.
Repeated application of low-frequency stimulation can interrupt the development and progression of seizures. Low-frequency stimulation applied to the corpus callosum can also induce long-term depression in the neocortex of awake freely moving rats as well as reduce the size of neocortical movement representations (motor maps). We have previously shown that seizures induced through electrical stimulation of the corpus callosum, amygdala or hippocampus can expand the topographical expression of neocortical motor maps. The purpose of the present study was to determine if low-frequency stimulation administered to the corpus callosum could reverse the expansion of neocortical motor maps induced by seizures propagating from the hippocampus. Adult Long-Evans hooded rats were electrically stimulated in the right ventral hippocampus, twice daily until 30 neocortical seizures were recorded. Subsequently, low-frequency stimulation was administered to the corpus callosum once daily for 20 sessions. High-resolution intracortical microstimulation was then utilized to derive forelimb-movement representations in the left (un-implanted) sensorimotor neocortex. Our results show that hippocampal seizures result in expanded motor maps and that subsequent low-frequency application can reduce the size of the expanded motor maps. Low-frequency stimulation may be an effective treatment for reversing seizure-induced reorganization of brain function.
The mechanisms of tolerance to subsequent episodes of ischemia induced by cortical spreading depression (CSD) are not clear. The effects of CSD on the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), and lactate dehydrogenase-A (LDH-A) were evaluated in the present experiment. Unilateral CSD was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by application of KCl on the right cortex and the mRNA levels of iNOS, HIF-1alpha, and LDH-A were evaluated at 15 min, 2 h, 4 h, 6 h or 24 h after CSD. RT-PCR analysis showed: 1) an increase of iNOS mRNA at 15 min, 2 h, 4 h; 2) an increase of HIF-1alpha mRNA at 6 h; 3) an increase of LDH-A mRNA at 4 h. In situ hybridization with specific digoxigenin-labeled oligonucleotides revealed that the mRNA levels were increased at 15 min-2 h for iNOS, 2-4 h for LDH-A and 6 h for HIF-1 after CSD. Immunohistochemistry analysis revealed that levels of iNOS and HIF-1alpha were increased, respectively, at 2 h and 6 h after CSD. These data suggest that CSD promotes the expression of iNOS, HIF-1alpha, and LDH-A in nervous cells giving a neuroprotective effect.
Following immature excitotoxic brain damage, distinct patterns of caspase activation have been described in neurons and glial cells. Neuronal cells show activation of the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway, caspase-3 cleavage and apoptotic cell death, while reactive astrocytes show caspase-3 cleavage that is not always correlated with enzymatic protease activity and does not generally terminate in cell death. Accordingly, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the astrocytic colocalization of cleaved caspase-3 and several anti-apoptotic proteins of the inhibitor of apoptosis proteins family (IAPs), such as survivin and cellular inhibitor of apoptosis-2 (cIAP-2), and the heat shock proteins (HSPs) family, Hsp25/27 and Hsc70/Hsp70, which can all prevent caspases from cleaving their substrates. At several survival times ranging from 4 h to 14 days after cortical excitotoxic damage induced by N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) injection at postnatal day 9 in rat pups, single and double immunohistochemical techniques were performed in free floating cryostat sections and sections were analyzed by confocal microscopy. Our results show that survivin and Hsp25/27 are primarily expressed in reactive astrocytes of the damaged cortex and the adjacent white matter. In addition, both molecules strongly colocalize with cleaved caspase-3. Survivin is primarily located in the nucleus, like cleaved caspase-3; while Hsp25/27 is cytoplasmic but very frequently found in cells showing nuclear caspase-3. cIAP-2 was mostly found in damaged neurons but also in some glial scar reactive astrocytes and showed fewer correlation with caspase-3. Hsc70/Hsp70 was only expressed in injured neurons and did not correlate with caspase-3. Thus, we conclude that primarily survivin and Hsp25/27 may participate in the inhibition of cleaved caspase-3 in reactive astrocytes and may be involved in protecting astrocytes after injury.
Sodium-coupled neutral amino-acid transporter member 2 (SNAT2) belongs to the family of neutral amino-acid transporters. SNAT2 is encoded by the gene Slc38a2, whose expression was reported to increase in vitro in fibroblasts, endothelial and renal cells exposed to a hypertonic medium. SNAT2 tonicity-induced expression brings about cellular accumulation of amino-acid, which contributes to osmoadaptation to hypertonicity. Since brain osmoadaptation is observed in relationship to neurological disorders resulting from pathological osmotic imbalances in blood plasma, we have investigated, through immunocytochemistry, SNAT2 expression in brain of rats subjected to systemic hypertonicity. Following prolonged systemic hypertonicity (24 h), small, strongly immunolabeled elements were observed that were not present in sham-treated animals. They were evenly distributed in the gray matter, with a lower density in the forebrain and a higher density in the brain stem. However the highest density by far was observed in white matter, where they were frequently aligned in chain-like rows. These observations suggested an oligodendrocyte location that was further established by double immunofluorescent labeling, using the oligodendrocyte phenotypic markers 2'-3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'phosphodiesterase and carbonic anhydrase II. SNAT2-positive elements were found associated with oligodendrocyte cell bodies, while oligodendrocyte processes were devoid of labeling. A quantitative analysis performed in the cerebral cortex indicated that virtually all SNAT2-positive elements were associated with oligodendrocyte cell bodies and conversely that the overwhelming majority of oligodendrocytes showed SNAT2 immunolabeling. The tonicity-induced expression of SNAT2 was not observed following acute systemic hypertonicity (6 h). Our results suggest that the osmoadaptation of brain oligodendrocytes to hypertonicity relies upon amino-acid accumulation through the tonicity-induced expression of SNAT2. The possible significance of these findings in relationship to the selective loss of oligodendrocytes observed in osmotic demyelination syndrome is discussed.
In a previous study, it was shown that populations of climbing fibers, derived from the inferior olivary complex (IOC) contain the peptide corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and that the expression of this peptide in climbing fibers could be modulated by the level of activity in olivary afferents. The intent of this study was to determine if there was comparable plasticity in the distribution of the type 1 CRF receptor (CRF-R1) in the cerebellum of the rat. Our results indicate that CRF-R1 was localized primarily to Purkinje cell somata and their primary dendrites and granule cells. In addition, scattered immunolabeling was present over the somata of Golgi cells, basket cells and stellate cells, as well as Bergmann glial cells and their processes. IOC stimulation for 30 min at 1 Hz increased CRF-R1 expression in molecular layer interneurons and processes of Bergmann glial cells. Little to no effect on CRF receptor distribution was observed in Purkinje cells, granule cells, or Golgi cells. IOC stimulation at 5 Hz however, increased CRF-R1 expression in the processes of Bergmann glial cells while decreasing its expression in basket, stellate and, to some extent, in Purkinje cells. The present results suggest that there is activity-dependent plasticity in CRF-R1 expression that must be considered in defining the mechanism by which the CRF family of peptides modulates activity in cerebellar circuits. The present results also suggest that the primary targets of CRF released from climbing fibers are Bergmann glial cells and interneurons in the molecular layer. Further, interneurons responded with a decrease in receptor expression following more intense levels of stimulation suggesting the possibility of internalization of the receptor. In contrast, Bergmann glial cells showed an increased expression in receptor expression. These data suggest that CRF released from climbing fibers may modulate the physiological properties of basket and stellate cells as well as having a heretofore unidentified and potentially unique effect on Bergmann glia.
Stereotypical changes in neurofilament subunit expression are highly correlated with the regenerative success of lower vertebrate CNS axons. The phylogenetically conserved binding of ribonucleoproteins to the 3'-untranslated region of the middle neurofilament subunit (NF-M) mRNA suggests that post-transcriptional mechanisms play an important role in the control of NF-M expression. To assess their contribution to the regulated changes in NF-M expression that occur during Xenopus laevis optic axon regeneration, we followed changes in intracellular NF-M RNA pools. Within 3 days after axotomy, when NF-M mRNA levels decrease in the injured retinal ganglion cells, heterogenous nuclear RNA levels increased more than 15-fold, but did so in both the operated and the contralateral unoperated eyes as compared with the eyes of surgically naive frogs. Increased nuclear RNA levels persisted throughout regeneration but never correlated directly with changes in mRNA expression, indicating that such changes most likely arose from alterations in nuclear-cytoplasmic RNA export and turnover. The early phase of optic nerve regeneration also exhibited an increase in the efficiency of translation of NF-M mRNA relative to surgically naive animals. This increase was only transient in unoperated control eye, but persisted through the peak of regeneration in the operated eye. Thus, post-transcriptional control of NF-M expression plays a significant role in regulating the cytoskeletal composition of injured neurons. These findings indicate that changes in protein expression during successful regeneration of CNS axons involve a complex interplay of transcriptional and translational regulation that is controlled by the operation of functional neuronal pathways. These findings also raise the additional possibility that factors regulating post-transcriptional changes in cytoskeletal gene expression may be as important as transcription factors for the successful regeneration of CNS axons.
Stress increases vulnerability to anxiety and depression. We have investigated the effect of acute immobilization stress in amygdalohippocampal circuits by measuring the electroencephalogram (EEG) in male Wistar rats during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Electrodes were implanted stereotaxically in the hippocampus (CA1 and CA3 subregions of the hippocampus) and the amygdala (lateral nucleus). Prior to the stress, two baseline recordings were taken. Twenty-four hours later rats were exposed once to acute immobilization stress (AIS) session for 2 h. After the release and on subsequent days, electrophysiological changes that occurred due to stress during REM sleep were analyzed by comparing them with baseline measurements. Our results suggest that acute immobilization stress induced significant increase in REM sleep in the first 24 h after the exposure. In addition to changes in the sleep patterns, we have observed increased theta oscillations in CA1 area of the hippocampus with decreased coherence at theta range (4-8 Hz) between hippocampus and amygdala. These results suggest that single exposure to aversive experience such as immobilization stress can lead to dynamic changes in neuronal activities with altered sleep morphology. The results obtained in the present study are comparable to those seen in human patients suffering from panic, and anxiety due to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation has often been used as an experimental model to study mechanisms underlying retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death associated with ocular ischemic injury and glaucoma. The aim of the present study, using both in vitro and in vivo approaches, was to investigate the role of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/akt pathway in RGC viability in normal rats and rats following transient IOP elevation. For in vivo studies, pathway inhibitors were administered intravitreally on days 3, 9, and 15 post-2-h IOP elevation at 110 mm Hg. Toward the end of the 3-week examination period, the fluorescent dye Fluorogold was used to retrogradely label surviving RGCs. In order to examine the role of macrophages that were recruited into the eye following the pathway inhibition, clodronate liposomes were used to deplete phagocytic cells in the eye. PI3K/akt pathway activity and location in the retina were examined using Western blot and immunohistochemistry, respectively. Here we showed that PI3K/akt inhibitors 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-1(4H)-benzopyran-4-one hydrochloride (LY294002) and KY12420 at low concentrations (2 microM or 20 microM) did not influence RGC survival but caused RGC loss at high concentration (200 muM) in retinal explants derived from intact rats. In contrast, both LY294002 and KY12420 at 20 microM led to RGC loss in retinal explants derived from IOP-elevated eyes. A detrimental action of phagocytic cells on RGC survival was also seen in these retinas. In vivo results confirmed the detrimental actions of PI3K/akt inhibition and macrophages on RGC survival in IOP-elevated, but not intact eyes even with high concentration of LY294002. Low level of PI3K/akt activity was detected in the ganglion cell layer (GCL) in intact retina. Acute IOP elevation activated PI3K/akt pathway in the inner nuclear layer and GCL including RGCs. This study thus demonstrates that PI3K/akt pathway mediates RGC survival after IOP elevation but not under normal condition.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) is a nodal link in reward circuitry. Based on its striatal output, it has been subdivided in a caudomedial part which targets the ventromedial striatum, and a lateral part which targets the ventrolateral striatum [Ikemoto S (2007) Dopamine reward circuitry: two projection systems from the ventral midbrain to the nucleus accumbens-olfactory tubercle complex. Brain Res Rev 56:27-78]. Whether these two VTA parts are interconnected and to what extent the VTA innervates the substantia nigra compacta (SNc) and retrorubral nucleus (RR) are critical issues for understanding information processing in the basal ganglia. Here, VTA projections to the VTA-nigral complex were examined in rats, using Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) as anterograde tracer. The results show that the dorsolateral VTA projects to itself, as well as to the dorsal tier of the SNc and RR, largely avoiding the caudomedial VTA. The ventrolateral VTA innervates mainly the interfascicular nucleus. The components of the caudomedial VTA (the interfascicular, paranigral and caudal linear nuclei) are connected with each other. In addition, the caudomedial VTA (especially the paranigral and caudal linear nuclei) innervates the lateral VTA, and, to a lesser degree, the SNc and RR. The caudal pole of the VTA sends robust, bilateral projections to virtually all the VTA-nigral complex, which terminate in the dorsal and ventral tiers. Modest inputs from the medial supramammillary nucleus to ventromedial parts of the VTA-nigral complex were also identified. In double-immunostained sections, PHA-L-labeled varicosities were sometimes found apposed to tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the ventral mesencephalon. Overall, the results underscore that VTA projections to the VTA-nigral complex are substantial and topically organized. In general, these projections, like the spiralated striato-nigro-striatal loops, display a medial-to-lateral organization. This anatomical arrangement conceivably permits the ventromedial striatum to influence the activity of the lateral striatum. The caudal pole of the VTA appears to be a critical site for a global recruitment of the mesotelencephalic system.
Both norepinephrine and acetylcholine have been shown to be critically involved in mediating attention but there remains debate about whether they serve similar or unique functions. Much of what is known about the role of these neurochemicals in cognition is based on manipulations done at the level of the cell body but these findings are difficult to reconcile with data regarding the unique contribution of cortical subregions, e.g. the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, to attention. In the current study, we directly compared the effects of noradrenergic and cholinergic deafferentation of the rat medial prefrontal cortex, the homologue of primate dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, using an intradimensional/extradimensional attentional set shifting task, a task previously shown to be able to dissociate the function of the primate dorsolateral prefrontal cortex from orbitofrontal cortex. We found that noradrenergic, but not cholinergic, deafferentation produces specific impairments in the ability to shift attentional set. We also clarified the nature of the attentional deficits by assessing the ability of rats to disregard irrelevant stimuli. Noradrenergic lesions did not alter the ability of rats to ignore irrelevant stimuli, suggesting that the attentional deficit results from an overly focused attentional state that retards learning that a new stimulus dimension predicts reward.
Our sense of gravitation and linear acceleration is mediated by stimulation of vestibular hair cells through displacement of otoconia in the utricle and saccule (the gravity receptor organ). We recently showed that otoconin-90 (Oc90) deletion led to formation of giant otoconia. In the present study, we determined the extent to which the giant otoconia affected balance and gravity receptor sensory input and compared the findings with other otoconia mutants. We employed a wide spectrum of balance behavioral tests, including reaching and air-righting reflexes, gait, swimming, beam-crossing, rotorod latencies, and a direct measure of gravity receptor input, vestibular evoked potentials (VsEPs). All tests on homozygous adult mutants consistently ranked the order of imbalance as (from worst to best) Nox3(het)&lt;otopetrin 1(tlt)&lt;Oc90 null&lt;Oc90 wild type and C57Bl/6 mice using systematic statistical comparisons of the frequency of occurrence or the severity of abnormal functions. This order coincides with the degree of otoconia deficiencies and is consistent with VsEP measures. Notably, all mice (except Nox3(het)) showed remarkable learned adaptation to peripheral vestibular deficits by staying on the rotating rod significantly longer in each successive trial, and the rate and extent of such learned improvements ranked the same order as their initial balance ability. Despite the vestibular morbidity, Oc90 null mice had normal hearing, as measured by auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) and distortion products of otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs). The study demonstrates that the remnant otoconia mass in Oc90 nulls does stimulate the gravity receptor organs, which was likely responsible for the improved balance performance relative to strains with absent otoconia. Furthermore, the combination of direct electrophysiological measures and a series of behavioral tests can be used to interpret the imbalance severity arising from altered inputs from the gravity receptor end organ.
Onset of auditory brainstem responses in chickens takes place at about embryonic day 11/12 (E11/12). We investigated early development of neuronal properties of chicken nucleus laminaris neurons, the third-order auditory neurons critically involved in sound localization. Whole-cell patch recordings were performed in brainstem slices obtained at E10, E11, E12, E14, E16, and E18. At E18 neurons acquired an adult-like firing pattern in response to prolonged depolarizing current injections, with a single spike at the onset of the current injection followed by a plateau of membrane potential. At earlier ages, however, multiple spikes and/or subthreshold membrane potential oscillations were generated. We observed a &gt;threefold reduction in input resistance from E10 to E18, and progressive changes in excitability properties, such as elevated threshold currents for spike generation, increased spike rising and falling rates, accompanied by reduced spike width and enhanced ability to follow high frequency inputs. Consistent with development of firing properties, the amplitude of voltage-gated potassium channel (Kv) currents increased by approximately threefold from E10 to E18, with a dramatic increase ( approximately ninefold) in the low threshold component. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were first recorded at E10, prior to and independent of the cochlear afferent inputs from the auditory nerve to the cochlear nucleus. EPSPs became markedly briefer in duration during the period studied. We conclude that the basic features of the key neuronal properties of NL neurons are well constructed during early development from E10 to E18.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with beta-amyloid accumulation, oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. However, the effects of genetic mutation of AD on oxidative status and mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) production during neuronal development are unclear. To investigate the consequences of genetic mutation of AD on oxidative damages and production of MnSOD during neuronal development, we used primary neurons from new born wild-type (WT/WT) and amyloid precursor protein (APP) (NLh/NLh) and presenilin 1 (PS1) (P264L) knock-in mice (APP/PS1) which incorporated humanized mutations in the genome. Increasing levels of oxidative damages, including protein carbonyl, 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) and 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT), were accompanied by a reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential in both developing and mature APP/PS1 neurons compared with WT/WT neurons suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction under oxidative stress. Interestingly, developing APP/PS1 neurons were significantly more resistant to beta-amyloid 1-42 treatment, whereas mature APP/PS1 neurons were more vulnerable than WT/WT neurons of the same age. Consistent with the protective function of MnSOD, developing APP/PS1 neurons have increased MnSOD protein and activity, indicating an adaptive response to oxidative stress in developing neurons. In contrast, mature APP/PS1 neurons exhibited lower MnSOD levels compared with mature WT/WT neurons indicating that mature APP/PS1 neurons lost the adaptive response. Moreover, mature APP/PS1 neurons had more co-localization of MnSOD with nitrotyrosine indicating a greater inhibition of MnSOD by nitrotyrosine. Overexpression of MnSOD or addition of MnTE-2-PyP(5+) (SOD mimetic) protected against beta-amyloid-induced neuronal death and improved mitochondrial respiratory function. Together, the results demonstrate that compensatory induction of MnSOD in response to an early increase in oxidative stress protects developing neurons against beta-amyloid toxicity. However, continuing development of neurons under oxidative damage conditions may suppress the expression of MnSOD and enhance cell death in mature neurons.
The striatum, which processes cortical information for behavioral output, is a key target of Huntington's disease (HD), an autosomal dominant condition characterized by cognitive decline and progressive loss of motor control. Increasing evidence implicates deficient glutamate uptake caused by a down-regulation of GLT1, the primary astroglial glutamate transporter. To test this hypothesis, we administered ceftriaxone, a beta-lactam antibiotic known to elevate GLT1 expression (200 mg/kg, i.p., for 5 days), to symptomatic R6/2 mice, a widely studied transgenic model of HD. Relative to vehicle, ceftriaxone attenuated several HD behavioral signs: paw clasping and twitching were reduced, while motor flexibility, as measured in a plus maze, and open-field climbing were increased. Assessment of GLT1 expression in striatum confirmed a ceftriaxone-induced increase relative to vehicle. To determine if the change in behavior and GLT1 expression represented a change in striatal glutamate handling, separate groups of behaving mice were evaluated with no-net-flux microdialysis. Vehicle treatment revealed a glutamate uptake deficit in R6/2 mice relative to wild-type controls that was reversed by ceftriaxone. Vehicle-treated animals, however, did not differ in GLT1 expression, suggesting that the glutamate uptake deficit in R6/2 mice reflects dysfunctional rather than missing GLT1. Our results indicate that impaired glutamate uptake is a major factor underlying HD pathophysiology and symptomology. The glutamate uptake deficit, moreover, is present in symptomatic HD mice and reversal of this deficit by up-regulating the functional expression of GLT1 with ceftriaxone attenuates the HD phenotype.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) is a brain structure located at the interface of the cortex and the cerebrospinal trunk. The BST is a cluster of nuclei organized in a complex intrinsic network that receives inputs from cortical and subcortical sources, and that sends a widespread top-down projection. There is growing evidence that the BST is a key component in the neurobiological basis of substance abuse. In the present study, the regulation of excitatory inputs onto identified neurons in the BST was examined in rats treated chronically with morphine. Neurons projecting to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) were identified by retrograde transport of fluorescent microspheres and recorded in the whole-cell voltage clamp configuration in brain slices. Selective excitatory inputs to these neurons were electrically evoked with electrodes placed in the medial and lateral aspects of the dorsal BST. The chronic morphine treatment selectively increased AMPA-dependent excitatory postsynaptic currents in a subset of inputs activated by dorso-lateral stimulation in the BST. Inputs activated by medial stimulation were not affected by morphine. Likewise, the inputs to neurons that did not project to the VTA were not changed by morphine. Altogether, these results extend the understanding of neuronal circuits intrinsically sensitive to drugs of abuse within the BST.
Chronic hypoxia causes neural dysfunction. Oxygen (O(2)) supplements have been commonly used to increase the O(2) supply, yet the therapeutic benefit of this treatment remains controversial due to a lack of cellular and molecular evidence. In this study, we examined the effects of short-burst O(2) supplementation on neural behavior and presynaptic protein expression profiles in a simple chronic hypoxia model of snail Lymnaea stagnalis. We reported that hypoxia delayed the animal response to light stimuli, suppressed locomotory activity, induced expression of stress-response proteins, hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), repressed syntaxin-1 (a membrane-bound presynaptic protein) and elevated vesicle-associated membrane protein-1 (VAMP-1) (a vesicle-bound presynaptic protein) level. O(2) supplements relieved suppression of neural behaviors, and corrected hypoxia-induced protein alterations in a dose-dependent manner. The effectiveness of supplemental O(2) was further evaluated by determining time courses for recovery of neural behaviors and expression of stress response proteins and presynaptic proteins after relief from hypoxia conditions. Our findings suggest that O(2) supplement improves hypoxia-induced adverse alterations of presynaptic protein expression and neurobehaviors, however, the optimal level of O(2) required for improvement is protein specific and system specific.
The mesolimbic dopaminergic system, originating from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) is implicated in the rewarding properties of ethanol. VTA dopaminergic neurons are under the tonic control of GABAergic innervations. Application of GABAergic agents changes ethanol consumption. However, it is unclear how acute ethanol modulates GABAergic inputs to dopaminergic neurons in the VTA. This report describes ethanol at clinically relevant concentrations (10-40 mM) dually modulates inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). IPSCs were mediated by GABA(A) receptors and were recorded from VTA dopaminergic neurons in acute midbrain slices of rats. Acute application of ethanol reduced the amplitude and increased the paired pulse ratio of evoked IPSCs. Ethanol lowered the frequency but not the amplitude of spontaneous IPSCs. Nevertheless, ethanol had no effect on miniature IPSCs recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin. These data indicate that ethanol inhibits GABAergic synaptic transmission to dopaminergic neurons by presynaptic mechanisms, and that ethanol inhibition depends on the firing of GABAergic neurons. Application of CGP 52432, a GABA(B) receptor antagonist, did not change ethanol inhibition of IPSCs. Tyr-d-Ala-Gly-N-Me-Phe-Gly-ol enkephalin (DAMGO), a mu-opioid receptor agonist, conversely, silenced VTA GABAergic neurons and inhibited IPSCs. Of note, in the presence of a saturating concentration of DAMGO (3 microM), ethanol potentiated the remaining IPSCs. Thus, ethanol dually modulates GABAergic transmission to dopaminergic neurons in the VTA. Ethanol modulation depends on the activity of VTA GABAergic neurons, which were inhibited by the activation of mu-opioid receptors. This dual modulation of GABAergic transmission by ethanol may be an important mechanism underlying alcohol addiction.
Evidence indicates that dopamine receptors regulate processes of procedural learning in the sensorimotor striatum. Our previous studies revealed that the indirect dopamine receptor agonist cocaine alters motor-skill learning-associated gene regulation in the sensorimotor striatum. Cocaine-induced gene regulation in the striatum is principally mediated by D1 dopamine receptors. We investigated the effects of cocaine and striatal D1 receptor antagonism on motor-skill learning. Rats were trained on a running wheel (40-60 min, 2-5 days) to learn a new motor skill, that is, the ability to control the movement of the wheel. Immediately before each training session, the animals received an injection of vehicle or cocaine (25 mg/kg, i.p.), and/or the D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 (0, 3, 10 microg/kg, i.p., or 0, 0.3, 1 microg, intrastriatal via chronically implanted cannula). The animal's ability to control/balance the moving wheel (wheel skill) was tested before and repeatedly after the training. Normal wheel-skill memory lasted for at least 4 weeks. Cocaine administered before the training tended to attenuate skill learning. Systemic administration of SCH-23390 alone also impaired skill learning. However, cocaine given in conjunction with the lower SCH-23390 dose (3 microg/kg) reversed the inhibition of skill learning produced by the D1 receptor antagonist, enabling intact skill performance during the whole post-training period. In contrast, when cocaine was administered with the higher SCH-23390 dose (10 microg/kg), skill performance was normalized 1-6 days after the training, but these rats lost their improved wheel skill by day 18 after the training. Similar effects were produced by SCH-23390 (0.3-1 microg) infused into the striatum. Our results indicate that cocaine interferes with normal motor-skill learning, which seems to be dependent on optimal D1 receptor signaling. Furthermore, our findings demonstrate that D1 receptors in the striatum are critical for consolidation of long-term skill memory.
Selective immunotoxic cholinergic lesions in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) impair visuospatial attention performance in a 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRT task). The features of the reported deficits, however, do not perfectly match among studies, in which some lesions may have been too weak while others largely encroached onto the septal region. Using the 5-CSRT task, we therefore re-assessed the effects of NBM lesions that produced minimal septal damage. Long-Evans adult male rats were trained to stable 5-CSRT task performance (stimulus duration: 0.5 s) and subsequently subjected to intra-NBM injections of 192 IgG-saporin (200 ng/side). The lesions induced more than 90% loss of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the NBM vs. only 28% in the medial septum. The decrease of the optical density of acetylcholinesterase reaction products was significant in the cortex (-91%), not in the hippocampus. In the 5-CSRT task, the lesions resulted in increased omissions (from 10% to 30%) and decreased correct responses (from 80% to 60%), with negligible or no effects on all other usually collected variables. This deficit disappeared with lengthened stimulus duration (i.e. 0.5-1 and then 5 s). Furthermore, overall performance levels decreased when the stimulus duration was shortened (i.e. 0.5-0.2 s) or its intensity attenuated, and rats with cholinergic lesions remained consistently impaired vs. controls. These results show that disruption of sustained visual attention functions by damage to the NBM cholinergic neurons can be evidenced despite weak or no effects on variables accounting for motivational, locomotion- or impulsivity-related biases. Discrepancies with previously reported results are discussed in terms of differences in lesion extent/specificity and training levels.
Bulimia nervosa is characterized by consuming large amounts of food over a defined period with a loss of control over the eating. This is followed by a compensatory behavior directed at eliminating the consumed calories, usually vomiting. Current treatments include antidepressants and/or behavioral therapies. Consensus exists that these treatments are not very effective and are associated with high relapse rates. We review evidence from literature and present original data to evaluate the hypothesis that bulimia involves alterations in vago-vagal function. Evidence in support of this include (1) laboratory studies consistently illustrate deficits in meal size, meal termination, and satiety in bulimia; (2) basic science studies indicate that meal size and satiation are under vagal influences; (3) anatomical, behavioral and physiological data suggest that achieving satiety and the initiation of emesis involve common neural substrates; (4) abnormal vagal and vago-vagal reflexive functions extend to non-eating activational stimuli; and (5) studies from our laboratory modulating vagal activation have shown significant effects on binge/vomit frequencies and suggest a return of normal satiation. We propose a model for the pathophysiology of bulimia based upon de-stabilization of a bi-stable positive vago-vagal feedback loop. This model is not meant to be complete, but rather to stimulate anatomical, psychobiological, and translational neuroscience experiments aimed at elucidating the pathophysiology of bulimia and developing novel treatment strategies.
Little is known about the role of the endocrine system in financial risk taking. Here, we report the findings of a study in which we sampled, under real working conditions, endogenous steroids from a group of male traders in the City of London. We found that a trader's morning testosterone level predicts his day's profitability. We also found that a trader's cortisol rises with both the variance of his trading results and the volatility of the market. Our results suggest that higher testosterone may contribute to economic return, whereas cortisol is increased by risk. Our results point to a further possibility: testosterone and cortisol are known to have cognitive and behavioral effects, so if the acutely elevated steroids we observed were to persist or increase as volatility rises, they may shift risk preferences and even affect a trader's ability to engage in rational choice.
Covert attention can lead to improved performance in perceptual tasks. The neural and functional mechanisms of covert attention are still under investigation. Using both rapid event-related and mixed designs, we measured the blood oxygenation level-dependent functional MRI contrast response functions over the full range of contrast (0-100%) in the retinotopically defined early visual areas (V1, V2, V3, V3A, and V4) in humans. Covert attention increased both the baseline activities and contrast gains in the five cortical areas. The effect on baseline can be decomposed into a transient trial-by-trial component and a component across an entire attention block. On average, increase in contrast gain accounted for approximately 88.0%, 28.5%, 12.7%, 35.9%, and 25.2% of the trial-by-trial effects of attention in the five areas, respectively, and 22.2%, 12.8%, 7.4%, 19.7%, and 17.3% of the total effects of attention in those areas, consistent with single-unit findings in V4 and MT. The results provide strong evidence for a stimulus enhancement mechanism of attention as demonstrated in various behavioral studies.

Models that demonstrate environmental regulation as a consequence of organism and environment coupling all require a number of core assumptions. Many previous models, such as Daisyworld, require that certain environment-altering traits have a selective advantage when those traits also contribute towards global regulation. We present a model that results in the regulation of a global environmental resource through niche construction without employing this and other common assumptions. There is no predetermined environmental optimum towards which regulation should proceed assumed or coded into the model. Nevertheless, polymorphic stable states that resist perturbation emerge from the simulated co-evolution of organisms and environment. In any single simulation a series of different stable states are realised, punctuated by rapid transitions. Regulation is achieved through two main subpopulations that are adapted to slightly different resource values, which force the environmental resource in opposing directions. This maintains the resource within a comparatively narrow band over a wide range of external perturbations. Population driven oscillations in the resource appear to be instrumental in protecting the regulation against mutations that would otherwise destroy it. Sensitivity analysis shows that the regulation is robust to mutation and to a wide range of parameter settings. Given the minimal assumptions employed, the results could reveal a mechanism capable of environmental regulation through the by-products of organisms.


The laterodorsal (LD) nucleus of the thalamus has been considered a &quot;higher order&quot; nucleus that provides inputs to limbic cortical areas. Although its functions are largely unknown, it is often considered to be involved in spatial learning and memory. Here we provide evidence that LD is part of a hitherto unknown pathway for processing somatosensory information. Juxtacellular and extracellular recordings from LD neurons reveal that they respond to vibrissa stimulation with short latency (median = 7 ms) and large magnitude responses (median = 1.2 spikes/stimulus). Most neurons (62%) had large receptive fields, responding to six and more individual vibrissae. Electrical stimulation of the trigeminal nucleus interpolaris (SpVi) evoked short latency responses (median = 3.8 ms) in vibrissa-responsive LD neurons. Labeling produced by anterograde and retrograde neuroanatomical tracers confirmed that LD neurons receive direct inputs from SpVi. Electrophysiological and neuroanatomical analyses revealed also that LD projects upon the cingulate and retrosplenial cortex, but has only sparse projections to the barrel cortex. These findings suggest that LD is part of a novel processing stream involved in spatial orientation and learning related to somatosensory cues.
Retinal ganglion cells comprise about 10 morphological types that also differ functionally. To determine whether functional differences might arise partially from differences in excitatory input, we quantified the distributions of ribbon contacts to four mammalian ganglion cell types [brisk-transient (BT), brisk-sustained (BS), local edge (LE), directionally selective (DS)], comparing small vs. large and &quot;sluggish&quot; vs. &quot;brisk.&quot; Cells in guinea pig retina were filled with fluorescent dye, immunostained for synaptic ribbons, and reconstructed with their ribbon contacts by confocal microscopy. False-positive contacts were corrected by performing the same analysis on processes that lack synapses: glial stalks and rod bipolar axons. All types shared a domed distribution of membrane that was well fit by a Gaussian function (R(2) = 0.96 +/- 0.01); they also shared a constant density of contacts on the dendritic membrane, both across each arbor and across cell types (19 +/- 1 contacts/100 microm(2) membrane). However, the distributions of membrane across the retina differed markedly in width (BT &gt; DS approximately BS &gt; LE) and peak density (BS &gt; DS &gt; LE &gt; BT). Correspondingly, types differed in peak density of contacts (BS &gt; DS approximately LE &gt; BT) and total number (BS approximately BT &gt; DS &gt; LE). These differences between cell types in spatial extent and local concentration of membrane and synapses help to explain certain functional differences.
The neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin and their receptors have been implicated in elements of mammalian social behavior such as attachment to mates and offspring, but their potential role in mediating other types of social relationships remains largely unknown. We performed receptor autoradiography to assess whether forebrain oxytocin receptor (OTR) or vasopressin V1a receptor (V1aR) distributions differed with social structure in two closely related and ecologically similar species of South American rodents, the colonial tuco-tuco (Ctenomys sociabilis) and the Patagonian tuco-tuco (Ctenomys haigi). Long-term field studies have revealed that C. haigi is solitary, whereas C. sociabilis is social and provides a model of female-based group living. Our analyses revealed marked differences in OTR and V1aR distributions between these species. For example, only C. sociabilis had OTR binding in the piriform cortex and thalamus and V1aR binding in the olfactory bulbs. In contrast, C. haigi exhibited dramatically higher levels of OTR binding throughout the lateral septum and hippocampus. More generally, the group-living C. sociabilis exhibited a pattern of nucleus accumbens OTR and ventral pallidum V1aR binding different from that associated with the formation of opposite-sex pair bonds in microtine rodents. Higher binding in the central nucleus of the amygdala of C. sociabilis was consistent with the hypothesis that formation of social groups in C. sociabilis may be facilitated by reduced social anxiety. Low OTR binding in the lateral septum might also be a permissive factor for group living in C. sociabilis. Future studies will expand on these analyses to explore interspecific differences in ctenomyid receptor binding patterns in a phylogenetic context.
Microglia are believed to play an important role in the regulation of phagocytosis, neuronal survival, neuronal cell death, and inflammation. Recent studies have demonstrated that microglia are multipotential stem cells that give rise to neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. However, the functional properties of neurons derived from microglia are poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the possibility that microglia differentiate into functional neurons. Immunocytochemical study demonstrated that microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2)-positive cells were derived from microglia under differentiation conditions. Intracellular Ca(2+) imaging study demonstrated that KCl caused no significant changes in [Ca(2+)](i) in microglia, whereas it caused a remarkable increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in microglia-derived cells. Furthermore, electrophysiological study demonstrated that the spike waveform, firing rate, and tetrodotoxin sensitivity of extracellular action potentials evoked by 4-aminopyridine from microglia-derived MAP2-positive cells were nearly identical to those from cultured cortical neurons. These results suggest that microglia-derived MAP2-positive cells possess properties of functional neurons.
CASK is a unique MAGUK protein that contains an N-terminal CaM-kinase domain besides the typical MAGUK domains. The CASK CaM-kinase domain is presumed to be a catalytically inactive pseudokinase because it lacks the canonical DFG motif required for Mg2+ binding that is thought to be indispensable for kinase activity. Here we show, however, that CASK functions as an active protein kinase even without Mg2+ binding. High-resolution crystal structures reveal that the CASK CaM-kinase domain adopts a constitutively active conformation that binds ATP and catalyzes phosphotransfer without Mg2+. The CASK CaM-kinase domain phosphorylates itself and at least one physiological interactor, the synaptic protein neurexin-1, to which CASK is recruited via its PDZ domain. Thus, our data indicate that CASK combines the scaffolding activity of MAGUKs with an unusual kinase activity that phosphorylates substrates recuited by the scaffolding activity. Moreover, our study suggests that other pseudokinases (10% of the kinome) could also be catalytically active.
Omission of extracellular Ca(2+) for 15 min from the incubation medium of cultured hippocampal slices stimulated the efflux of glutathione, phosphoethanolamine, hypotaurine, and taurine. The efflux was reduced by several blockers of gap junctions, i.e. carbenoxolone, flufenamic acid, and endothelin-1, and by the connexin43 hemichannel blocking peptide Gap26 but was unchanged by the P2X(7) receptor inhibitor oxidized ATP, a pannexin1 hemichannel blocking peptide and an inactive analogue of carbenoxolone. Pretreatment of the slices with the neurotoxin N-methyl-d -aspartate left the efflux by Ca(2+) omission unchanged, indicating that the stimulated efflux primarily originated from glia. Elevated glutamate efflux was detected when Ca(2+) omission was combined with the glutamate uptake blocker l-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate and when both Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) were omitted from the medium. Omission of Ca(2+) for 15 min alone did not induce delayed toxicity, but in combination with blocked glutamate uptake, significant cell death was observed 24 h later. Our results indicate that omission of extracellular Ca(2+) stimulates efflux of glutathione and specific amino acids including glutamate via opening of glial hemichannels. This type of efflux may have protective functions via glutathione efflux but can aggravate toxicity in situations when glutamate reuptake is impaired, such as following a stroke.
Organisms respond to available nutrient levels by rapidly adjusting metabolic flux, in part through changes in gene expression. A consequence of adaptations in metabolic rate is the production of mitochondria-derived reactive oxygen species. Therefore, we hypothesized that nutrient sensing could regulate the synthesis of the primary defense of the cell against superoxide radicals, manganese superoxide dismutase. Our data establish a novel nutrient-sensing pathway for manganese superoxide dismutase expression mediated through essential amino acid depletion concurrent with an increase in cellular viability. Most relevantly, our results are divergent from current mechanisms governing amino acid-dependent gene regulation. This pathway requires the presence of glutamine, signaling via the tricarboxylic acid cycle/electron transport chain, an intact mitochondrial membrane potential, and the activity of both the MEK/ERK and mammalian target of rapamycin kinases. Our results provide evidence for convergence of metabolic cues with nutrient control of antioxidant gene regulation, revealing a potential signaling strategy that impacts free radical-mediated mutations with implications in cancer and aging.
An illusion of reversed motion may occur sporadically while viewing continuous smooth motion. This has been suggested as evidence of discrete temporal sampling by the visual system in analogy to the sampling that generates the wagon-wheel effect on film (D. Purves, J. A. Paydarfar, &amp; T. J. Andrews, 1996; R. VanRullen, L. Reddy, &amp; C. Koch, 2005). In an alternative theory, the illusion is not the result of discrete sampling but instead of perceptual rivalry between appropriately activated and spuriously activated motion detectors (K. A. Kline, A. O. Holcombe, &amp; D. M. Eagleman, 2004, 2006). Results of the current study demonstrate that illusory reversals of two spatially overlapping and orthogonal motions often occur separately, providing evidence against the possibility that illusory motion reversal (IMR) is caused by temporal sampling within a visual region. Further, we find that IMR occurs with non-uniform and non-periodic stimuli-an observation that is not accounted for by the temporal sampling hypothesis. We propose, that a motion aftereffect is superimposed on the moving stimulus, sporadically allowing motion detectors for the reverse direction to dominate perception.
Pericytes are small cells that are apposed to brain and meningeal microvasculature and control capillary contraction, thereby regulating local cerebral perfusion. Pericytes respond to exogenously applied glutamate in vitro and express metabotropic glutamate receptors. However, it is unclear if pericytes have the capacity to release glutamate. We therefore determined whether pericytes express vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs), which are considered to be unambiguous markers of cells that use glutamate as an intercellular signaling molecule. Leptomeningeal and brain microvasculature-associated pericytes of the adult rat, as defined by the presence of NG2 proteoglycan, expressed both VGLUT2- and VGLUT3-immunoreactivity, but did not express VGLUT1. Consistent with the hypothesis that pericytes release glutamate, VGLUT2- and VGLUT3-immunoreactivities appeared to be localized to secretory vesicles. These results suggest that glutamate is released from pericytes of the leptomeninges and brain microvasculature, and demonstrate for the first time the co-localization of VGLUT2 and VGLUT3.
We report that developmental competition between sympathetic neurons for survival is critically dependent on a sensitization process initiated by target innervation and mediated by a series of feedback loops. Target-derived nerve growth factor (NGF) promoted expression of its own receptor TrkA in mouse and rat neurons and prolonged TrkA-mediated signals. NGF also controlled expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4, which, through the receptor p75, can kill neighboring neurons with low retrograde NGF-TrkA signaling whereas neurons with high NGF-TrkA signaling are protected. Perturbation of any of these feedback loops disrupts the dynamics of competition. We suggest that three target-initiated events are essential for rapid and robust competition between neurons: sensitization, paracrine apoptotic signaling, and protection from such effects.


The tumor suppressor p53 can translocate into mitochondria and activate apoptosis. Here we studied whether p53 mitochondrial translocation and subsequent apoptosis were affected by blocking mitochondrial permeability transition pore using cyclosporine A (CsA) and bongkrekic acid (BA) in skin epidermal JB6 cells and skin tissues. Our results demonstrated that CsA and BA blocked TPA-induced p53 translocation, leading to protection against the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and Complex I activity, and eventually suppression of apoptosis. Thus, our results suggest that mitochondrial permeability transition is required for p53 mitochondrial translocation.
Altered expression and mutations in alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) have been linked to Parkinson's disease (PD) and related disorders. The neurological alterations in PD patients have been associated with degeneration of dopaminergic cells and other neuronal populations. Moreover, recent studies in murine models have shown that alterations in neurogenesis might also contribute to the neurodegenerative phenotype. However, the mechanisms involved and the effects of alpha-syn expression on neurogenesis are not yet clear. To this end, murine embryonic stem (mES) cells were infected with lentiviral (LV) vectors expressing wild-type (WT) and mutant alpha-syn. Compared with mES cells infected with LV-green fluorescent protein (GFP), cells expressing WT and mutant alpha-syn showed reduced proliferation as indicated by lower 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine uptake, increased apoptosis, and reduced expression of neuronal markers such as neuron specific enolase and beta-III tubulin. The alterations in neurogenesis in alpha-syn-expressing mES cells were accompanied by a reduction in Notch-1 and Hairy and enhancer of split-5 (Hes-5) mRNA and protein levels. Moreover, levels of total Notch-1 and Notch intracellular domain (NICD) were lower in mES cells expressing WT and mutant alpha-syn compared with GFP controls. The reduced survival of alpha-syn-expressing mES cells was reverted by overexpressing constitutively active NICD. Similarly, in alpha-syn transgenic mice, the alterations in neurogenesis in the hippocampal subgranular zone were accompanied by decreased Notch-1, NICD, and Hes-5 expression. Together, these results suggest that accumulation of alpha-syn might impair survival of NPCs by interfering with the Notch signaling pathway. Similar mechanisms could be at play in PD and Lewy body disease.
The current development of immunotherapy for Alzheimer's disease is based on the assumption that human-derived amyloid beta protein (Abeta) can be targeted in a similar manner to animal cell-derived or synthetic Abeta. Because the structure of Abeta depends on its source and the presence of cofactors, it is of great interest to determine whether human-derived oligomeric Abeta species impair brain function and, if so, whether or not their disruptive effects can be prevented using antibodies. We report that untreated ex vivo human CSF that contains Abeta dimers rapidly inhibits hippocampal long-term potentiation in vivo and that acute systemic infusion of an anti-Abeta monoclonal antibody can prevent this disruption of synaptic plasticity. Abeta monomer isolated from human CSF did not affect long-term potentiation. These results strongly support a strategy of passive immunization against soluble Abeta oligomers in early Alzheimer's disease.
Postsynaptic interactions between dopamine (DA) and glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) are critical for addiction. To determine the effect of acute and repeated DA receptor stimulation on AMPA receptor (AMPAR) synaptic targeting in medium spiny NAc neurons, we developed a model system consisting of rat NAc neurons cocultured with prefrontal cortex neurons from enhanced green fluorescent protein-expressing mice. Cortical neurons restore excitatory input onto NAc neurons but are distinguishable based on fluorescence. First, we showed that brief D1-like agonist exposure increased AMPAR insertion onto extrasynaptic regions of NAc neuronal processes through a mechanism requiring protein kinase A. This facilitated the Ca2+/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)-dependent synaptic incorporation of AMPARs in response to subsequent NMDA receptor (NMDAR) stimulation. Through this mechanism, DA may promote reward- and drug-related plasticity in the NAc. Then, to model effects of repeated in vivo cocaine exposure, we treated cocultures with DA (1 microm, 30 min) on days 7, 9, and 11 in culture. On day 15, NAc neurons exhibited increased synaptic AMPAR levels. This was associated with CaMKII activation and was blocked by the CaMKII inhibitor KN-93 (N-[2-[N-(4-chlorocinnamyl)-N-methylaminomethyl]phenyl]-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-4-methoxybenzenesulfonamide phosphate salt). Furthermore, D1-like agonist exposure on day 15 no longer increased AMPAR surface expression. This refractoriness was associated with decreased D1 receptor surface expression. NMDAR surface expression was not altered by acute or repeated DA receptor stimulation. These results suggest that (1) after repeated DA treatment, NAc neurons are more responsive to glutamate inputs but D(1)-like receptor regulation of plasticity is impaired, and (2) NAc/prefrontal cortex cocultures are useful for studying dopamine-induced neuroadaptations.
Locomotion in segmented animals is thought to be based on the coupling of &quot;unit burst generators,&quot; but the biological nature of the unit burst generator has been revealed in only a few animal systems. We determined that dopamine (DA), a universal modulator of motor activity, is sufficient to activate fictive crawling in the medicinal leech, and can exert its actions within the smallest division of the animal's CNS, the segmental ganglion. In the entire isolated nerve cord or in the single ganglion, DA induced slow antiphasic bursting (approximately 15 s period) of motoneurons known to participate in the two-step elongation-contraction cycle underlying crawling behavior. During each cycle, the dorsal (DE-3) and ventral (VE-4) longitudinal excitor motoneurons fired approximately 180 degrees out of phase from the ventrolateral circular excitor motoneuron (CV), which marks the elongation phase. In many isolated whole nerve cords, DE-3 bursting progressed in an anterior to posterior direction with intersegmental phase delays appropriate for crawling. In the single ganglion, the dorsal (DI-1) and ventral (VI-2) inhibitory longitudinal motoneurons fired out of phase with each DE-3 burst, further confirming that the crawl unit burst generator exists in the single ganglion. All isolated ganglia of the CNS were competent to produce DA-induced robust fictive crawling, which typically lasted uninterrupted for 5-15 min. A quantitative analysis indicated that DA-induced crawling was not significantly different from electrically evoked or spontaneous crawling. We conclude that DA is sufficient to activate the full crawl motor program and that the kernel for crawling resides within each segmental ganglion.
Cone signals divide into parallel ON and OFF bipolar cell pathways, which respond to objects brighter or darker than the background and release glutamate onto the corresponding type of ganglion cell. It is assumed that ganglion cell excitatory responses are driven by these bipolar cell synapses. Here, we report an additional mechanism: OFF ganglion cells were driven in part by the removal of synaptic inhibition (disinhibition). The disinhibition played a relatively large role in driving responses at low contrasts. The disinhibition persisted in the presence of CNQX and d-AP-5. Furthermore, the CNQX/d-AP-5-resistant response was blocked by l-AP-4, meclofenamic acid, quinine, or strychnine but not by bicuculline. Thus, the disinhibition circuit was driven by the ON pathway and required gap junctions and glycine receptors but not ionotropic glutamate or GABA(A) receptors. These properties implicate the AII amacrine cell, better known for its role in rod vision, as a critical circuit element through the following pathway: cone --&gt; ON cone bipolar cell --&gt; AII cell --&gt; OFF ganglion cell. Rods could also drive this circuit through their gap junctions with cones. Thus, to light decrement, AII cells, driven by electrical synapses with ON cone bipolar cells, would hyperpolarize and reduce glycine release to excite OFF ganglion cells. To light increment, the AII circuit would directly inhibit OFF ganglion cells. These results show a new role for disinhibition in the retina and suggest a new role for the AII amacrine cell in daylight vision.

The endocannabinoid system is implicated in the regulation of a variety of physiological processes, among which conditioning, motivation, habit forming, memory, learning, and cognition play pivotal roles in drug reinforcement and reward. In this article we will give a synopsis of last developments in research on cannabinoid actions on brain reward circuits coming from behavioral, neurochemical and electrophysiological studies. Central cannabinoid-induced effects as measured by animal models of addiction, in vivo cerebral microdialysis, in vitro and in vivo electrophysiological recording techniques, will be reviewed. Brain sites that have been implicated in the mediation of addictive cannabinoid properties include primarily the ventral tegmental area, the nucleus accumbens, and the medial prefrontal cortex, although the amygdala, the substantia nigra, the globus pallidus, and the hippocampus have also been shown to be critical structures mediating motivational and reinforcing effects of cannabinoids. Putative neurobiological mechanisms underlying these effects will be delineated.
Despite the increasing use of cannabis among adolescents, there are little and often contradictory studies on the long-term neurobiological consequences of cannabis consumption in juveniles. Adolescence is a critical phase for cerebral development, where the endocannabinoid system plays an important role influencing the release and action of different neurotransmitters. Therefore, a strong stimulation by the psychoactive component of marijuana, delta-9-tetrahydrocanabinol (THC), might lead to subtle but lasting neurobiological changes that can affect adult brain functions and behaviour. The literature here summarized by use of experimental animal models, puts forward that heavy cannabis consumption in adolescence may induce subtle changes in the adult brain circuits ending in altered emotional and cognitive performance, enhanced vulnerability for the use of more harmful drugs of abuse in selected individuals, and may represent a risk factor for developing schizophrenia in adulthood. Therefore, the potential problems arising in relation to marijuana consumption in adolescence suggest that this developmental phase is a vulnerable period for persistent adverse effects of cannabinoids.

Vestibular input to the cerebellum mediates balance and eye movement control. Recent functional MRI studies, however, show midline cerebellar activation during visually induced illusions of self-rotation, thus suggesting that the cerebellum may also contribute to self-motion perception. Here, we investigate self-motion perception directly in patients with vermal (or midline) cerebellar ataxia. Participants were rotated in the dark (90 degrees /s velocity steps) and the time constant of decay of the postrotational angular velocity sensation was measured. The perceptual vestibular time constant in patients was considerably reduced (7.8 s) with respect to control values in this (25.6 s) and several previous studies. In addition to the processing of vestibular signals for motor control, the cerebellar vermis is involved in vestibular processing of self-motion perception.
Subthalamic nucleus single-unit recordings were undertaken before and during pedunculopontine [corrected] nucleus-stimulation at clinically relevant frequency (25 Hz) in six patients with Parkinson's disease. Pedunculopontine [corrected] nucleus stimulation changed the firing activity of almost every subthalamic nucleus cell (44/48) by decreasing the ongoing discharge in bursting subthalamic nucleus neurons (-62.1%) and exciting irregular (+63.2%) and tonic/regular discharges (+20.1%). These conflicting data challenge the definition of pedunculopontine [corrected] nucleus as a new target area for Parkinson's disease. If the modulation of subthalamic nucleus bursting units may corroborate the pedunculopontine [corrected] nucleus therapeutic role, the simultaneous excitatory influence during nonbursty patterns might interfere with a favorable outcome on motor signs. As a result, the implantation of pedunculopontine [corrected] nucleus alone may be hazardous while the association of subthalamic nucleus plus pedunculopontine [corrected] nucleus seems to be reasonable.
We recently identified a novel amyloid precursor protein mutation (E693Delta) in familial Alzheimer's-type dementia. This mutation produces amyloid-beta (Abeta) variant lacking glutamate-22 (E22Delta), which showed enhanced oligomerization but no fibrillization. Here, we examined in-vitro toxicity of Abeta E22Delta peptide. Wild-type Abeta1-42 showed a dose-dependent (1 nM to 1 microM) cytotoxicity to cultured neuronal cells in the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay, whereas Abeta1-42 E22Delta was toxic only weakly at 1 microM. In mouse hippocampal slices, however, Abeta1-42 E22Delta caused a dose-dependent (0.1-10 microM) decrease of synaptophysin, whereas wild-type Abeta1-42 was trophic at 0.1-1 microM and toxic at 10 microM. These results suggest that extracellular Abeta E22Delta causes more potent synaptic alteration, but lower neurodegeneration, than wild-type Abeta probably because of its unique aggregation property.

Neuroimaging studies of speech processing increasingly rely on artificial speech-like sounds whose perceptual status as speech or non-speech is assigned by simple subjective judgments; brain activation patterns are interpreted according to these status assignments. The nave perceptual status of one such stimulus, spectrally-rotated speech (not consciously perceived as speech by nave subjects), was evaluated in discrimination and forced identification experiments. Discrimination of variation in spectrally-rotated syllables in one group of nave subjects was strongly related to the pattern of similarities in phonological identification of the same stimuli provided by a second, independent group of nave subjects, suggesting either that (1) nave rotated syllable perception involves phonetic-like processing, or (2) that perception is solely based on physical acoustic similarity, and similar sounds are provided with similar phonetic identities. Analysis of acoustic (Euclidean distances of center frequency values of formants) and phonetic similarities in the perception of the vowel portions of the rotated syllables revealed that discrimination was significantly and independently influenced by both acoustic and phonological information. We conclude that simple subjective assessments of artificial speech-like sounds can be misleading, as perception of such sounds may initially and unconsciously utilize speech-like, phonological processing.


Ion permeation and gating kinetics of voltage-gated K channels critically depend on the amino-acid composition of the cavity wall. Residue 470 in the Shaker K channel is an isoleucine, making the cavity volume in a closed channel insufficiently large for a hydrated K(+) ion. In the cardiac human ether-a-go-go-related gene channel, which exhibits slow activation and fast inactivation, the corresponding residue is tyrosine. To explore the role of a tyrosine at this position in the Shaker channel, we studied I470Y. The activation became slower, and the inactivation faster and more complex. At +60 mV the channel inactivated with two distinct rates (tau(1) = 20 ms, tau(2) = 400 ms). Experiments with tetraethylammonium and high K(+) concentrations suggest that the slower component was of the P/C-type. In addition, an inactivation component with inverted voltage dependence was introduced. A step to -40 mV inactivates the channel with a time constant of 500 ms. Negative voltage steps do not cause the channel to recover from this inactivated state (tau &gt; 10 min), whereas positive voltage steps quickly do (tau = 2 ms at +60 mV). The experimental findings can be explained by a simple branched kinetic model with two inactivation pathways from the open state.
Being at the crux of human cognition and behaviour, imitation has become the target of investigations ranging from experimental psychology and neurophysiology to computational sciences and robotics. It is often assumed that the imitation is innate, but it has more recently been argued, both theoretically and experimentally, that basic forms of imitation could emerge as a result of self-observation. Here, we tested this proposal on a realistic experimental platform, comprising an associative network linking a 16 degrees of freedom robotic hand and a simple visual system. We report that this minimal visuomotor association is sufficient to bootstrap basic imitation. Our results indicate that crucial features of human imitation, such as generalization to new actions, may emerge from a connectionist associative network. Therefore, we suggest that a behaviour as complex as imitation could be, at the neuronal level, founded on basic mechanisms of associative learning, a notion supported by a recent proposal on the developmental origin of mirror neurons. Our approach can be applied to the development of realistic cognitive architectures for humanoid robots as well as to shed new light on the cognitive processes at play in early human cognitive development.

Retinoic acid (RA) signaling plays critical roles in diverse cellular processes during nervous system development. In mouse models, the roles for RA signals in telencephalic development remain unclear, partly because of the ambiguity of RA telencephalic sources after E8.75. Here, we have developed a genetic approach that utilizes Cre-lox technology to conditionally express a potent dominant negative retinoid receptor, RAR403, in vivo. This approach blocks RA signaling pathways at the receptor level, enabling the disruption of RA signals in contexts in which the RA source is unknown. RAR403 expression throughout the developing telencephalon causes pronounced hypoplasia resulting from defective proliferation in dorsal telencephalic progenitors and extensive cell death. Furthermore, Nkx2.1(+) progenitors in the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) are misspecified such that they acquire a subset of lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE)-specific properties at the expense of MGE fates. This genetic approach reveals new roles for RA signaling in telencephalic proliferation, survival and fate specification, and underscores its utility in investigating the function of retinoid signaling pathways throughout peri- and postnatal development.
Increasing evidence suggests that oxidative stress is intimately associated with Alzheimer disease pathophysiology. Nucleic acids (nuclear DNA, mitochondrial DNA, and RNA) are one of the several cellular macromolecules damaged by reactive oxygen species, particularly the hydroxyl radical. Because neurons are irreplaceable and survive as long as the organism does, they need elaborate defense mechanisms to ensure their longevity. In Alzheimer disease, however, an accumulation of nucleic acid oxidation is observed, indicating an increased level of oxidative stress and/or a decreased capacity to repair the nucleic acid damage. In this review, we present data supporting the notion that mitochondrial and metal abnormalities are key sources of oxidative stress in Alzheimer disease. Furthermore, we outline the mechanisms of nucleic acid oxidation and repair. Finally, evidence showing the occurrence of nucleic acid oxidation in Alzheimer disease will be discussed.
Radial glia are neural stem cells that exist only transiently during central nervous system (CNS) development, where they serve as scaffolds for neuronal migration. Their instability makes them difficult to study, and therefore we have isolated stabilized radial glial clones from E14.5 cortical progenitors (e.g., L2.3) after expression of v-myc. Activated Notch1 intracellular region (actNotch1) promotes radial glia in the embryonic mouse forebrain (Gaiano et al., (2000), and when it was introduced into E14.5 cortical progenitors or radial glial clone L2.3, the cells exhibited enhanced radial morphology and increased expression of the radial glial marker BLBP. A representative clone of L2.3 cells expressing actNotch1 called NL2.3-4 migrated more extensively than L2.3 cells in culture and in white matter of the adult rat spinal cord. Microarray and RT-PCR comparisons of mRNAs expressed in these closely related clones showed extensive similarities, but differed significantly for certain mRNAs including several cell adhesion molecules. Cell adhesion assays demonstrated significantly enhanced adhesion to laminin of NL2.3-4 by comparison to L2.3 cells. The laminin binding protein nidogen was the most highly induced adhesion molecule in NL2.3-4, and immunological analyses indicated that radial glia synthesize and secrete nidogen. Adhesion of NL2.3-4 cells to laminin was inhibited by anti-nidogen antibodies and required the nidogen binding region in laminin, indicating that nidogen promotes cell adhesion to laminin. The combined results indicate that persistent expression of activated Notch1 maintains the phenotype of radial glial cells, inhibits their differentiation, and promotes their adhesion and migration on a laminin/nidogen complex.
Several research models have shown that if cellular stress induces the heat shock response then this will suppress the NF-kappaB-mediated inflammatory response. The NF-kappaB signaling pathway mediates both stress signals and innate immunity signals. Heat shock proteins HSP70 and HSP90 regulate several signaling cascades to maintain cellular homeostasis. Recent studies have revealed that HSP70 and HSP90 proteins regulate the function of the IKK complex which is the major activator of the NF-kappaB complex. The heat shock response can cause the dissociation of the IKK complex, composed of protein kinase subunits IKKalpha and IKKbeta and the regulatory unit NEMO, and inhibit the activation of NF-kappaB signaling. Suppression of immune signaling during cellular stress may be a useful feedback response for helping cells to survive tissue injury. Furthermore, IKKalpha and IKKbeta kinases are important activators of tumorigenesis and hence the inhibition of long-term activation of the IKK complex by HSP70 and HSP90 proteins may prevent cancer development during chronic inflammation.
Pituitary adenylyl cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) is expressed in central, sensory, autonomic, and enteric neurons. Although it classically acts as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator, recent studies indicate that PACAP can also regulate immune function. To this effect, PACAP has been shown to reduce clinical symptoms and inflammation in mouse models of human immune-based diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's Disease, septic shock and multiple sclerosis. Despite these findings, the role of the endogenous peptide in regulating immune function is unknown. To determine if endogenous PACAP plays a protective role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and IBD-associated colorectal cancer in mice, PACAP-deficient (KO) mice were subjected to 3 cycles of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) in drinking water over 2 months, an established mouse model for colitis. Compared to wild type (WT) controls, PACAP KO mice exhibited more severe clinical symptoms of colitis and had significantly higher colonic inflammation on pathological examination. Moreover, 60% of the PACAP KO mice developed colorectal tumors with an aggressive-appearing pathology. Consistent with published data, DSS-treated WT mice did not develop such tumors. The results demonstrate a new mouse model which rapidly develops inflammation-associated colorectal cancer in the absence of a carcinogen.
In the olfactory bulb the sets of mitral cells that project their apical dendrite to the same glomerulus represent unique functional networks. While it is known that mitral cells release vesicular glutamate from their apical tuft it is believed that the resultant self-excitation (SE), transmitted via dendritic gap junctions, is the main form of lateral transmission within the mitral cell assembly. In this study we used simultaneous whole-cell recordings from mitral cell pairs to show that a direct form of chemical lateral excitation (LE) provides a means of mitral cell-mitral cell communication. In contrast to the ubiquitous expression and robust nature of SE, the efficacy of glutamatergic LE between mitral cells is highly variable and mediated by calcium-impermeable AMPA receptors. We also find that the strength of LE is bi-directionally modulated, in a homeostatic manner, by sniffing-like patterns of presynaptic activity. Since these changes last many minutes we suggest that such mitral cell-mitral cell interactions provide the glomerular network with a locus for olfactory plasticity and a potential mechanism for receptive field modulation.
Kv4 channels mediate most of the somatodendritic subthreshold operating A-type current (I(SA)) in neurons. This current plays essential roles in the regulation of spike timing, repetitive firing, dendritic integration and plasticity. Neuronal Kv4 channels are thought to be ternary complexes of Kv4 pore-forming subunits and two types of accessory proteins, Kv channel interacting proteins (KChIPs) and the dipeptidyl-peptidase-like proteins (DPPLs) DPPX (DPP6) and DPP10. In heterologous cells, ternary Kv4 channels exhibit inactivation that slows down with increasing depolarization. Here, we compared the voltage dependence of the inactivation rate of channels expressed in heterologous mammalian cells by Kv4.2 proteins with that of channels containing Kv4.2 and KChIP1, Kv4.2 and DPPX-S, or Kv4.2, KChIP1 and DPPX-S, and found that the relation between inactivation rate and membrane potential is distinct for these four conditions. Moreover, recordings from native neurons showed that the inactivation kinetics of the I(SA) in cerebellar granule neurons has voltage dependence that is remarkably similar to that of ternary Kv4 channels containing KChIP1 and DPPX-S proteins in heterologous cells. The fact that this complex and unique behaviour (among A-type K(+) currents) is observed in both the native current and the current expressed in heterologous cells by the ternary complex containing Kv4, DPPX and KChIP proteins supports the hypothesis that somatically recorded native Kv4 channels in neurons include both types of accessory protein. Furthermore, quantitative global kinetic modelling showed that preferential closed-state inactivation and a weakly voltage-dependent opening step can explain the slowing of the inactivation rate with increasing depolarization. Therefore, it is likely that preferential closed-state inactivation is the physiological mechanism that regulates the activity of both ternary Kv4 channel complexes and native I(SA)-mediating channels.
Encoding the motion of objects through three spatial dimensions is a fundamental challenge for the visual system. Two binocular cues could contribute to the perception of motion through depth: changes in horizontal disparity (CD) and interocular velocity differences (IOVD). Although conceptually distinct, both cues are typically present when real objects move. Direct experimental isolation of the putative IOVD cue has remained elusive, and it is therefore unclear to what extent the visual system relies on it. We have found that binocularly anticorrelated stimuli impair position in depth judgments, but motion through depth judgments for the same stimuli are relatively unaffected. This dissociation of direction of motion from position in depth provides strong evidence that percepts of motion through depth are not based exclusively on estimating changes in disparity. Horizontal IOVDs appear to complement the CD cue. Vertical IOVDs fail to yield comparable performance, further implicating a comparison of horizontal interocular velocity and also ruling out explanations of our results based on monocular cues. These results suggest that (1) IOVDs are a robust cue to motion through depth; (2) IOVDs and retinal disparities exhibit similar horizontal/vertical anisotropies, consistent with the geometry of binocular viewing; and (3) binocular anticorrelation provides means to titrate the relative contributions of CD and IOVD cues.
A heterozygous 2264C--&gt;T variant (P755L) in LRRK2 gene has been reported to be a likely pathogenic variant among ethnic Chinese patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). In a case control study, we performed genetic analysis of the P755L variant in an independent cohort of Chinese patients with PD and controls. The P755L variant was present in 4/204 (2.0%) of PD compared with 6/235 (2.6%) of controls (odds ratio = 0.76, 95% CI 0.23, 2.6, P = 0.76). All subjects carried the heterozygous genotype. Subset analysis in the group &gt; or = 65 years of age revealed a prevalence of 2.8% in PD compared with 3.1% in controls (odds ratio = 0.92, 95% CI 022, 3.7, P = 0.9), and in the group &lt; 65 years of age showed a 0% in PD versus 2.1% in controls (P = 0.2). The phenotype of patients with PD with the P755L variant was generally similar to other patients with PD and none of the carriers reported a positive family history. The lack of functional data, absence of segregation of the variant with disease, and the presence of the variant in apparently healthy individuals suggest that P755L is possibly a rare polymorphism in the Chinese population. Further validation of our findings in other populations would be important.
The caudal intralaminar nuclei are a major source of glutamatergic afferents to the basal ganglia. Experiments in the 6-hydroxydopamine rat model have shown that the parafascicular nucleus is overactive and its lesion alleviates basal ganglia neurochemical abnormalities associated with dopamine depletion. Accordingly, removal of this excitatory innervation of the basal ganglia could have a beneficial value in the parkinsonian state. To test this hypothesis, unilateral kainate-induced chemical ablation of the centromedian thalamic nucleus (CM) has been performed in MPTP-treated monkeys. Successful lesions restricted to the CM boundaries (n = 2) without spreading over other neighboring thalamic nuclei showed an initial, short-lasting, and mild change in the parkinsonian motor scale but no effect against levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The lack of significant and persistent motor improvement leads us to conclude that unilateral selective lesion of the CM alone cannot be considered as a suitable surgical approach for the treatment of PD or levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The role of the caudal intralaminar nuclei in the pathophysiology of movement disorders of basal ganglia origin remains to be clarified.
Given the possible role of dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) in the pathophysiology of dystonia, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) methods to study PMd and PMd-primary motor cortex (M1) interactions in patients with focal arm dystonia. Here, we tested the connectivity between left PMd and right M1 as well as the intracortical excitability of PMd in 11 right-handed patients with focal arm/hand dystonia and nine age-matched healthy controls. The results showed that excitability of the inhibitory connection between PMd and M1 was reduced in patients, but there was no significant difference to healthy subjects in the excitability of the facilitatory connection. A triple stimulation technique in which pairs of TMS pulses are given over PMd and their interaction measured in terms of the effect on the baseline PMd-M1 connection failed to reveal the usual pattern of interaction between the pairs of PMd stimuli. Indeed, the results in patients were similar to those seen in a group of young healthy subjects after the excitability of PMd had been changed by pretreatment with high-frequency rTMS. We suggest that reduced transcallosal inhibition from the PMd may be involved in the altered pattern of abnormal muscle contractions of agonists and antagonists (overflow).
A form of fixed dystonia (FD) without evidence of basal ganglia lesions or neurodegeneration has been recently characterized (Schrag et al., Brain 2004;127:2360-2372), which may overlap the clinical spectrum of either complex regional pain syndrome or psychogenic dystonia. Transcranial magnetic stimulation studies in typically mobile dystonia revealed abnormal motor cortical excitability and sensori-motor integration. We compared 12 patients with limb FD to 10 patients with primary adult-onset typically mobile dystonia and 11 age-matched healthy volunteers. Measurements at the first digital interosseus representation area on both hemispheres included: short intracortical inhibition (SICI), contralateral silent period (cSP), and short and long afferent inhibition (SAI and LAI). Repeated measure ANOVA and post-hoc t-tests were used for statistical analysis. SICI was significantly reduced in both hemispheres of patients with &quot;typical&quot; and FD, compared to healthy subjects. For both hemispheres, cSP duration was shorter in both fixed and &quot;typical&quot; dystonia patients. SAI and LAI did not significantly differ between the three groups. The abnormal cortical excitability observed in FD might represent an underlying trait predisposing to different clinical forms of dystonia.
Based on pharmacological, neuroanatomical, and lesion studies in animals, a functional compartmentalization of the striatal complex has been proposed. However, this has not been convincingly demonstrated in human subjects. Most functions ascribed to the striatum have been linked to its dense dopaminergic innervation, from motor control to higher-order brain functions (e.g., cognition), making the dopamine system a suitable probe for striatal function. Limbic striatum, a region involved in reward processing, has recently been implicated also in episodic memory function. Here we examined striatal dopamine D2-receptor binding in 16 healthy subjects using PET and the radioligand [(11)C]raclopride, in relation to cognitive performance. Receptor availability in limbic striatum was related to performance in tests of episodic memory, but not to tests of verbal fluency and general knowledge. By contrast, D2 binding in associative and sensorimotor striatum was less strongly related to episodic memory, but showed associations to the non-episodic tasks. These findings provide biochemical evidence for a functional compartmentalization of human striatum, and serve as a starting point for a more detailed investigation of striatal biomarkers in the normal brain as well as in neurodegenerative disorders.
The consumption of cannabis has been linked to impairments in human learning and memory, as well as aspects of executive functioning. Cannabis-related impairments in learning and memory in chronic cannabis users, it has been argued, are caused by the effects of cannabis on hippocampal functioning. The current study involved two experiments. Experiment 1 compared 35 current users of cannabis and 38 well-matched controls on a face-name task, previously shown to activate the hippocampal region. Based on the results of experiment 1, experiment 2 used fMRI and a modified version of the face-name task, to examine cortical and (para)hippocampal activity during learning and recall in 14 current users of cannabis and 14 controls. Results of experiment 1 showed that cannabis users were significantly worse with respect to learning, short and long-term memory performance. Experiment 2 showed that despite non-significant differences in learning and memory performance, cannabis users had significantly lower levels of BOLD activity in the right superior temporal gyrus, right superior frontal gyrus, right middle frontal gyrus and left superior frontal gyrus compared to controls during learning. Results also showed that cannabis users had significantly higher BOLD activity in the right parahippocampal gyrus during learning. Hypoactivity in frontal and temporal cortices, and relative hyperactivity in the parahippocampus identify functional deficits and compensatory processes in cannabis users.
The literature suggests that that semantic and phonological fluency tasks selectively activate left Brodmann's area (BA) 45 and 44, respectively, in Broca's speech region. We used functional MRI to test this hypothesis. Subjects performed a semantic and a phonological fluency task. In addition, a syntactic fluency task (e.g. &quot;Generate nouns with masculine gender&quot;) was included. Resting blocks were included as a low-level control condition. The exact localisation of the effects was tested with cytoarchitectonic probability maps of BA 44 and BA 45. Participants generated fewer words in the syntactic than in both the semantic and the phonological condition, which did not differ from each other. Compared to rest, all language tasks activated the well-known language network in the left hemisphere including both left BA 44 and BA 45. In the direct contrasts between the different verbal fluency tasks, phonological fluency activated BA 44 more strongly than semantic or syntactic fluency. However, semantic fluency did not elicit higher activation than the phonological fluency tasks in any part of Broca's region. No differences were observed between syntactic and semantic fluency. Thus, the activation in BA 45 observed during verbal fluency tasks seems to be not restricted to semantic processing as suggested by the literature. In contrast, phonological verbal fluency additionally involved the left BA 44. In conclusion, different parts of Broca's region support task-specific and more general processes in verbal fluency.
Major advances have been made in the understanding of the neurobiology of psychopathy in the past years, yet the distribution and extent of neuroanatomical abnormalities underlying the disorder are still poorly known. It is also unclear if different dimensions of the construct of psychopathy (e.g., emotional callousness, antisocial behavior) correspond to structural abnormalities in distinct regions of the brain. We tested the following hypotheses: (1) psychopathy is related to grey matter reductions in regions of the brain that underlie moral conduct and (2) the severity of psychopathy is related to the degree of structural abnormalities. Optimized voxel-based morphometry and the screening version of the Psychopathy Checklist (PCL: SV) were employed to investigate a matched sample of 15 community psychiatric patients with high PCL: SV scores, and 15 healthy normal volunteers. The analyses controlled for total grey matter, white matter and cerebrospinal fluid volumes. Grey matter reductions were observed in the frontopolar, orbitofrontal and anterior temporal cortices, superior temporal sulcus region, and insula of the patients. The degree of structural abnormalities was significantly related to the interpersonal/affective dimension of psychopathy. The pattern of grey matter reductions in patients with high psychopathy scores comprised a distributed fronto-temporal network which plays a critical role in moral sensibility and behavior.
Our goal is to study the human brain anatomical network. For this, the anatomical connection probabilities (ACP) between 90 cortical and subcortical brain gray matter areas are estimated from diffusion-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DW-MRI) techniques. The ACP between any two areas gives the probability that those areas are connected at least by a single nervous fiber. Then, the brain is modeled as a non-directed weighted graph with continuous arc weights given by the ACP matrix. Based on this approach, complex networks properties such as small-world attributes, efficiency, degree distribution, vulnerability, betweenness centrality and motifs composition are studied. The analysis was carried out for 20 right-handed healthy subjects (mean age: 31.10, S.D.: 7.43). According to the results, all networks have small-world and broad-scale characteristics. Additionally, human brain anatomical networks present bigger local efficiency and smaller global efficiency than the corresponding random networks. In a vulnerability and betweenness centrality analysis, the most indispensable and critical anatomical areas were identified: putamens, precuneus, insulas, superior parietals and superior frontals. Interestingly, some areas have a negative vulnerability (e.g. superior temporal poles, pallidums, supramarginals and hechls), which suggest that even at the cost of losing in global anatomical efficiency, these structures were maintained through the evolutionary processes due to their important functions. Finally, symmetrical characteristic building blocks (motifs) of size 3 and 4 were calculated, obtaining that motifs of size 4 are the expanded version of motif of size 3. These results are in agreement with previous anatomical studies in the cat and macaque cerebral cortex.



Associative reinforcement provides a powerful explanation of learned behavior. However, an unproven but long-held conjecture holds that spatial learning can occur incidentally rather than by reinforcement. Using a carefully controlled virtual-reality object-location memory task, we formally demonstrate that locations are concurrently learned relative to both local landmarks and local boundaries but that landmark-learning obeys associative reinforcement (showing &quot;overshadowing&quot; and &quot;blocking&quot; or &quot;learned irrelevance&quot;), whereas boundary-learning is incidental, showing neither overshadowing nor blocking nor learned irrelevance. Crucially, both types of learning occur at similar rates and do not reflect differences in levels of performance, cue salience, or instructions. These distinct types of learning likely reflect the distinct neural systems implicated in processing of landmarks and boundaries: the striatum and hippocampus, respectively [Doeller CF, King JA, Burgess N (2008) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 105:5915-5920]. In turn, our results suggest the use of fundamentally different learning rules by these two systems, potentially explaining their differential roles in procedural and declarative memory more generally. Our results suggest a privileged role for surface geometry in determining spatial context and support the idea of a &quot;geometric module,&quot; albeit for location rather than orientation. Finally, the demonstration that reinforcement learning applies selectively to formally equivalent aspects of task-performance supports broader consideration of two-system models in analyses of learning and decision making.
How the memory systems centered on the hippocampus and dorsal striatum interact to support behavior remains controversial. We used functional MRI while people learned the locations of objects by collecting and replacing them over multiple trials within a virtual environment comprising a landmark, a circular boundary, and distant cues for orientation. The relative location of landmark and boundary was occasionally changed, with specific objects paired with one or other cue, allowing dissociation of learning and performance relative to either cue. Right posterior hippocampal activation reflected learning and remembering of boundary-related locations, whereas right dorsal striatal activation reflected learning and remembering of landmark-related locations. Within the right hippocampus, anterior processing of environmental change (spatial novelty) was dissociated from posterior processing of location. Behavioral studies show that landmark-related learning obeys associative reinforcement, whereas boundary-related learning is incidental [Doeller CF, Burgess N (2008) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 105:5909-5914]. The distinct incidental hippocampal processing of boundaries is suggestive of a &quot;geometric module&quot; or &quot;cognitive map&quot; and may explain the hippocampal support of incidental/observational learning in &quot;declarative&quot; or &quot;episodic&quot; memory versus the striatal support of trial-and-error learning in &quot;procedural&quot; memory. Finally, the hippocampal and striatal systems appear to combine &quot;bottom-up,&quot; simply influencing behavior proportional to their activations, without direct interaction, with &quot;top-down&quot; ventromedial prefrontal involvement when both are similarly active.
The T cell leukemia 3 (Tlx3) gene has been implicated in specification of glutamatergic sensory neurons in the spinal cord. In cranial sensory ganglia, Tlx3 is highly expressed in differentiating neurons during early embryogenesis. To study a role of Tlx3 during neural differentiation, mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells were transfected with a Tlx3 expression vector. ES cells stably expressing Tlx3 were grown in the presence or absence of a neural induction medium. In undifferentiated ES cells, there was no significant difference in gene expression in the presence or absence of Tlx3, even after ES cells were cultured for an extensive time period. In contrast, expression levels of Mash1, Ngn1, and NeuroD were significantly higher in Tlx3-expressing cells after neural induction for 4 days compared with those in cells expressing the control vector. At 7 days after neural induction, whereas expression of the proneural genes was down-regulated, VGLUT2, GluR2, and GluR4 were significantly increased in ES cell-derived neurons expressing Tlx3. The sequential and coordinated expression of the proneural and neuronal subtype-specific genes identifies Tlx3 as a selector gene in ES cells undergoing neural differentiation. In addition, the differential effects of Tlx3 overexpression in undifferentiated ES cells compared with ES cell-derived neurons suggest that Tlx3 exerts context-dependent transcriptional signals on its downstream target genes. The context-dependent function of Tlx3 as a selector gene may be used to establish a novel strategy to conditionally generate excitatory glutamatergic neurons from ES cells to cure various types of neurodegenerative disorders.
The efficacy of serotonin reuptake inhibitors in depression and anxiety disorders suggests the gene coding for the serotonin transporter (5-HTT), SLC6A4, as a candidate of importance for these conditions. Positive findings regarding associations between polymorphisms in SLC6A4 have been reported, indicating that these polymorphisms may influence anxiety-related personality traits, as well as the risk of developing depression and suicidality. Serotonin 5-HTT availability was assessed with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), using (123)I-beta-CIT as ligand, in a population of unmedicated male suicide attempters (n=9) and in matched controls (n=9). Two polymorphisms in SLC6A4 were assessed, including the 5-HTTLPR located in the promoter region and a variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) polymorphism in intron 2 (STin2). In suicide attempters, but not in controls, low 5-HTT availability was associated with the S allele of 5-HTTLPR and with the 12 repeat allele of STin2. Data suggest that polymorphisms in SLC6A4 may influence the expression of the brain serotonin transporter in suicide attempters.
The aim of the study was to determine the effects of one electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) session on learning, attention, and frontal and visuospatial functions. Twenty-four psychiatric patients receiving maintenance ECT participated in the study. The 12 patients in the experimental group were assessed before and 90 min after the ECT session. The twelve patients in the control group were assessed on arrival at the hospital and 90 min afterwards. They were then given their ECT session. The experimental group did not show significant learning, attention or frontal decline in the second assessment after the ECT session, in comparison with the control group. However, visuospatial ability was lower in experimental patients' second assessment than it was in the control group's second assessment. This preliminary study showed that there was no significant clinical cognitive decline in psychiatric patients 90 min after a single ECT session. However, patients presented visuospatial dysfunction, suggesting that ECT sessions may cause some acute, mild dysfunction of right hemispheric cognitive functions.
We have cloned a novel transcriptional repressor protein, termed simiRP58, which has high homology to RP58. Both simiRP58 and RP58 belong to the POZ domain and Kruppel Zn finger (POK) family of proteins. Using the luciferase assay system, we found that simiRP58 also has transcriptional repressor activity like RP58. Northern blotting and quantitative RT-PCR showed that simiRP58 was expressed in testes at the highest level. In situ hybridization of testes showed that simiRP58 is expressed by spermatocytes in only a portion of the seminiferous tubules. In contrast, expression of RP58 by spermatocytes was ubiquitous in all seminiferous tubules. Using COS-7 cells, we observed that simiRP58 was localized in the cytoplasm, which is in contrast to RP58 that was localized in the nucleus. Interestingly, co-transfection with simiRP58 and RP58 induced changes in the localization patterns of both proteins.
Recent studies have shown that SNPs in the FTO gene predispose to childhood and adult obesity. In this study, we examined the association between variants in FTO and KIAA1005, a gene that maps closely to FTO, and obesity, as well as obesity related traits among 450 well characterised severely obese children and 512 normal weight controls. FTO showed significant association with several obesity related traits while SNPs in KIAA1005 did not. When stratified by gender, the FTO variant rs9939609 showed association with obesity and BMI among girls (P=0.006 and 0.004, respectively) but not among boys. Gender differences were also found in the associations of the FTO rs9939609 with obesity related traits such as insulin sensitivity and plasma glucose. This study suggests that FTO may have an important role for gender specific development of severe obesity and insulin resistance in children.
The Pitx2 gene regulates left-right (L/R) asymmetrical cardiac morphogenesis. Constitutive Pitx2 knock out (ko) mice die before birth and display, among other defects, right atrial isomerism, atrial and ventricular septal defects, and double outlet right ventricle. The myocardial role of the gene has not been dissected. In particular, how Pitx2 regulates the differential L/R cardiac identity program is not clear. Additionally, the relation between Pitx2 ko ventricular defects and the gene expression pattern is not understood. In this article we analyze Pitx2 myocardial function during mouse heart development. By in situ hybridization analysis we show that myocardial Pitx2 expression delineates the remodeling of the left atrioventricular canal, the inner curvature, the ventral part of the interventricular ring, and the ventral portion of the right and left ventricle. By genetic analysis using an allelic series of Pitx2 mutants, among which a myocardial specific ko (ko(myo)) we show it has a crucial role in this process. Pitx2 ko(myo) mutants survive to adulthood, when they present strong cardiac morphological and functional defects. Confocal analysis of embryonic Pitx2 ko(myo) hearts reveals delayed cardiomyocyte development in the ventricular but not in the atrial Pitx2 null areas. Conversely, selective left atrial BMP10 mRNA downregulation which normally occurs at fetal stages is not found in the Pitx2 ko(myo) mice. This is the first evidence for distinct Pitx2 action in mediating L/R atrial identity and asymmetrical ventricular remodeling.
T cell memory is a cornerstone of protective immunity, and is the key element in successful vaccination. Upon encountering the relevant pathogen, memory T cells are thought to initiate cell division much more rapidly than their nave counterparts, and this is thought to confer a significant biological advantage upon an immune host. Here, we use traceable TCR-transgenic T cells to evaluate this proposed characteristic in CD4+ and CD8+ memory T cells. We find that, even in the presence of abundant antigen that was sufficient to induce in vivo IFNgamma production by memory T cells, both memory and nave T cells show an extended, and indistinguishable, delay in the onset of proliferation. Although memory cells can detect, and respond to, virus infection within a few hours, their proliferation did not begin until approximately 3 days after infection, and occurred simultaneously in all anatomical compartments. Thereafter, cell division was extraordinarily rapid for both nave and memory cells, with the latter showing a somewhat accelerated accumulation. We propose that, by permitting memory T cells to rapidly exert their effector functions while delaying the onset of their proliferation, evolution has provided a safeguard that balances the risk of infection against the consequences of severe T cell-mediated immunopathology.


During development, sympathetic neurons extend axons along a myriad of distinct trajectories, often consisting of arteries, to innervate one of a large variety of distinct final target tissues. Whether or not subsets of neurons within complex sympathetic ganglia are predetermined to innervate select end-organs is unknown. Here we demonstrate in mouse embryos that the endothelin family member Edn3 (ref. 1), acting through the endothelin receptor EdnrA (refs 2, 3), directs extension of axons of a subset of sympathetic neurons from the superior cervical ganglion to a preferred intermediate target, the external carotid artery, which serves as the gateway to select targets, including the salivary glands. These findings establish a previously unknown mechanism of axonal pathfinding involving vascular-derived endothelins, and have broad implications for endothelins as general mediators of axonal growth and guidance in the developing nervous system. Moreover, they suggest a model in which newborn sympathetic neurons distinguish and choose between distinct vascular trajectories to innervate their appropriate end organs.
Flexible behavior in humans often requires that rapid choices be made between conflicting action plans. Although much attention has focused on prefrontal regions, little is understood about the contribution of parietal cortex under situations of response conflict. Here we show that right parietal damage associated with spatial neglect leads to paradoxical facilitation (speeding) of rightward movements in the presence of conflicting leftward response plans. These findings indicate a critical role for parietal regions in action planning when there is response competition. In contrast, patients with prefrontal damage have an augmented cost of conflict for both leftward and rightward movements. The results suggest involvement of two independent systems in situations of response conflict, with right parietal cortex being a crucial site for automatic activation of competing motor plans and prefrontal regions acting independently to inhibit action plans irrelevant to current task goals.
How basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors control neurogenesis and neuronal subtype specification through transcriptional mechanisms mediated by cell signaling remains to be fully elucidated. In this issue of Neuron, Ma et al. discover that phosphorylation via GSK3 of the bHLH factor, Ngn2 (Neurog2), adds a neuronal subtype-specific program to its functional repertoire that is activated in the developing neural tube in vivo.
In this issue of Neuron, two papers provide new insights into roles for local cadherin-based interactions during axon targeting in the Drosophila visual system. Using high-resolution analyses, Chen and Clandinin identify nonautonomous roles for the atypical cadherin Flamingo during photoreceptor targeting, while Nern et al. demonstrate that local cell type-specific roles for N-cadherin control layer-specific targeting of lamina neurons.
Within the hierarchy of epithelial stem cells, normal progenitor cells may express regulated telomerase during renewal cycles of proliferation and differentiation. Discontinuous telomerase activity may promote increased renewal capacity of progenitor cells, while deregulated/continuous telomerase activity may promote immortalization when differentiation and/or senescent pathways are compromised. In the present work, we show that resveratrol activates, while progesterone inactivates, continuous telomerase activity within 24 h in subpopulations of human Li-Fraumeni syndrome-derived breast epithelial cells. Resveratrol results in immortalization of mixed progenitor cells with mutant p53, but not human epithelial cells with wild type p53. Our results demonstrate the potential for renewing progenitor cells with mutant p53 to immortalize after continuous telomerase expression when exposed to certain environmental compounds. Understanding the effects of telomerase modulators on endogenous telomerase activity in progenitor cells is relevant to the role of immortalization in the initiation and progression of cancer subtypes.
The limbic system-associated membrane protein (LAMP) is a GPI-anchored cell adhesion molecule expressed heavily in limbic and limbic-associated regions of the developing and adult brain. Experimental studies show that LAMP promotes the growth of limbic neurons and guides the projections of limbic fibers. In order to examine the functional consequences of disrupting limbic circuit assembly, we generated a mouse line in which the Lsamp gene encoding LAMP was deleted. Basic neuroanatomical organization and sensory and motor development are normal in Lsamp(-/-) mice. The most profound change in behavior in both male and female Lsamp(-/-) mice is a heightened reactivity to novelty exhibited in several behavioral tests. Lsamp(-/-) mice display hyperactivity in a novel arena and both sexes habituate to the same activity levels as their wild type littermates, but at different rates. In the elevated plus maze, Lsamp(-/-) mice exhibit increased total arm entries, with a bias towards the open arms; they spend more time in the open arms and have a substantial increase in the amount of risk assessment in unprotected areas of the maze. In the y-maze, Lsamp(-/-) mice exhibit characteristic hyperactivity and a decreased level of spontaneous alternation during the period when their novelty-induced hyperactivity is at its peak. We hypothesize that Lsamp(-/-) mice may not simply exhibit a decrease in anxiety, but may have a heightened, and possibly maladaptive, response to novel environmental stressors. Genetic deletion of Lsamp may thus cause circumscribed changes in the fine connectivity of specific circuits that underlie these behaviors.
Increased impulsivity is observed across a number of neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases. Preclinical evidence has demonstrated that antagonism of the serotonin 5-HT(2C) receptor may act to increase impulsivity, leading to the hypothesis that an agonist may exert reciprocal effects and attenuate impulsive behavior. The 5-HT(2C) agonist, WAY-163909, was evaluated in the present paper using a variable stimulus duration and inter-trial interval manipulation in the 5-choice serial reaction time test designed to increase impulsivity and decrease attention. WAY-163909 treatment selectively and dose-dependently decreased impulsivity suggesting that agonism of the 5-HT(2C) receptor may be useful for modulating impulsivity in disease states where impulsivity is a pathological feature.
Animal models of repeated stressor exposure have generally been limited to physical stressors, despite the fact that the purpose of such models is to represent repeated stress in humans, which is usually psychological in nature. The present study was undertaken to investigate the behavioural, endocrine, and neural responses to a repeated psychological stressor exposure in male and female rats. Long-Evans rats were exposed to cat odour or a control condition for 1 h each day from Day 1 to Day 22. Every fourth day, defensive (e.g. hiding), and non-defensive (e.g. grooming) behaviour was quantified, during both the initial and the final 10 min of the hour. Defensive behaviours in cat odour-exposed animals remained vigorous during the initial 10 min of exposure across 22 exposure days. Non-defensive behaviours were suppressed during early exposures, but this suppression habituated across repeated exposures. Overall, the pattern of behavioural results indicated enhanced responses to novelty and to repeated cat odour exposure, in females, relative to males. Plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels were higher in females relative to males overall. However, males, but not females, exposed to cat odour had higher levels of CORT following exposure on Days 1 and 22, relative to controls. Finally, mRNA levels of glucocorticoid receptor, mineralocorticoid receptor, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, all of which are modulated by CORT, were examined in hippocampus at the completion of stressor exposure, but none was affected by repeated stressor exposure. Results are discussed within the context of potential differences in effects of repeated psychological versus physical stressors.
Trauma or stroke to motor cortex (MtCx) results in motor impairments that include movements of the contralateral forelimb in reaching for food that is to be placed in the mouth for eating (skilled reaching). In the rat, post-lesion recovery of success is incomplete and achieved using compensatory movements. A striking and puzzling feature of post-lesion performance is an increase in the numbers of reaching attempts. Whereas successful movements, whether normal or compensatory, have been extensively described, there has been no previous analysis of the movements comprising reach attempts, especially those that are unsuccessful. Here, rats pretrained in a single pellet reaching task received MtCx stroke via pial removal contralateral to the preferred-for-reaching forelimb. They then received daily physical rehabilitation and assessment in reaching. In addition to conventional end-point measures of performance, reaching behavior was evaluated by a new measure, gestures, derived from Laban Movement Analysis. Gestural analysis describes all non-weight bearing limb movements and so can document movements not explicitly directed to, or successful in, grasping food. In the acute post-stroke period, MtCx rats made few gestures, but thereafter gesture number escalated with recovery time, and eventually exceeded preoperative levels. Gestures were frequently repetitive and included combinations not used prior to stroke. The escalation in gestures number with recovery training suggests that excessive and inappropriate gestures may represent motor habits that substitute for, and compete with, successful movements. This description of &quot;learned baduse&quot; furthers the understanding of MtCx contributions to skilled movements and could potentially contribute to the modification of rehabilitative strategies for the treatment of stroke.
Neurological phenotypes associated with loss of caveolin 1 (cav-1) (the defining structural protein in caveolar vesicles, which regulate signal transduction and cholesterol trafficking in cells) in mice have been reported recently. In brain, cav-1 is highly expressed in neurons and glia. We investigated emotional and cognitive behavioural domains in mice deficient in cav-1 (CavKO mice). CavKO mice were more anxious and spent more time in self-directed grooming behaviour than wild-type (wt) mice. In a spatial/working memory task, CavKO mice failed to recognize the object displacement, thus showing a spatial memory impairment. CavKO mice showed higher locomotor activity than wt mice, thus suggesting reduced inhibitory function by CNS cholinergic systems. Behavioural response to the cholinergic muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine (2 mg/Kg), was decreased in CavKO mice. Few behavioural sex differences emerged in mice; whereas the sex differences were generally attenuated or even reverted in the null genotype. Our data confirm a distinct behavioural phenotype in CavKO mice and indicate a selective alteration in central cholinergic function.
Affixin/beta-parvin is an integrin-linked kinase (ILK)-binding focal adhesion protein highly expressed in skeletal muscle and heart. To elucidate the possible role of affixin in skeletal muscle, we established stable C2C12 cell line expressing T7-tagged human affixin (C2C12-affixin cells). Exogenous expression of affixin promotes lamellipodium formation where affixin, ILK alphap21-activated kinase (PAK)-interactive exchange factor (PIX) and betaPIX accumulate. The association of affixin and betaPIX was confirmed by immunoprecipitation and pull down assay. In C2C12-affixin cells, an increased level of activated Rac1 but not Cdc42 was observed, and mutant betaPIX lacking guanine nucleotide exchange factor activity inhibited lamellipodium formation. These results suggest that affixin is involved in reorganization of subsarcolemmal cytoskeletal actin by activation of Rac1 through alpha and betaPIXs in skeletal muscle.
Although morphine induces both analgesia and dependence through mu-opioid receptors (MORs), the respective contributions of the intracellular effectors engaged by MORs remain unknown. To examine the contribution of G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying K(+) (GIRK, Kir3) channels to morphine dependence and analgesia, we quantified naloxone-precipitated withdrawal behavior and morphine analgesia using GIRK knock-out ((-/-)) mice. The morphine withdrawal syndrome was strongly attenuated, whereas morphine analgesia was mostly preserved in mice lacking both GIRK2 and GIRK3 (GIRK2/3(-/-) mice). In acute slices containing the locus ceruleus (LC) from GIRK2/3(-/-) mice, the increase in spontaneous firing typically associated with morphine withdrawal was absent. Moreover, although morphine elicited normal presynaptic inhibition in the LC, postsynaptic GIRK currents were completely abolished in GIRK2/3(-/-) mice. Altogether, these data suggested that morphine-evoked postsynaptic inhibition of the LC was required for the induction of dependence. Consistent with this hypothesis, morphine withdrawal behavior was rescued in GIRK2/3(-/-) mice by ablation of adrenergic fibers using the neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine. Our data suggest that inhibition of adrenergic tone is required for the induction of dependence, and that channels containing GIRK2 and GIRK3 serve as an inhibitory gate.
Development of the human auditory brainstem is thought to be primarily complete by the age of approximately 2 years, such that subsequent sensory plasticity is confined primarily to the cortex. However, recent findings have revealed experience-dependent developmental plasticity in the mammalian auditory brainstem in an animal model. It is not known whether the human system demonstrates similar changes and whether experience with sounds composed of acoustic elements relevant to speech may alter brainstem response characteristics. We recorded brainstem responses evoked by both click and speech syllables in children between the ages of 3 and 12 years. Here, we report a neural response discrepancy in brainstem encoding of these two sounds, observed in 3- to 4-year-old children but not in school-age children. Whereas all children exhibited identical neural activity to a click, 3- to 4-year-old children displayed delayed and less synchronous onset and sustained neural response activity when elicited by speech compared with 5- to 12-year-olds. These results suggest that the human auditory system exhibits developmental plasticity, in both frequency and time domains, for sounds that are composed of acoustic elements relevant to speech. The findings are interpreted within the contexts of stimulus-related differences and experience-dependent plasticity.
Olfactory bulb (OB) interneurons are a heterogeneous population produced beginning in embryogenesis and continuing through adulthood. Understanding how this diversity arises will provide insight into how OB microcircuitry is established as well as adult neurogenesis. Particular spatial domains have been shown to contribute specific interneuron subtypes. However, the temporal profile by which OB interneuron subtypes are produced is unknown. Using inducible genetic fate mapping of Dlx1/2 precursors, we analyzed the production of seven OB interneuron subtypes and found that the generation of each subpopulation has a unique temporal signature. Within the glomerular layer, the production of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive interneurons is maximal during early embryogenesis and decreases thereafter. In contrast, the generation of calbindin interneurons is maximal during late embryogenesis and declines postnatally, whereas calretinin (CR) cell production is low during embryogenesis and increases postnatally. Parvalbumin interneurons within the external plexiform layer are produced only perinatally, whereas the generation of 5T4-positive granule cells in the mitral cell layer does not change significantly over time. CR-positive granule cells are not produced at early embryonic time points, but constitute a large percentage of the granule cells born after birth. Blanes cells in contrast are produced in greatest number during embryogenesis. Together we provide the first comprehensive analysis of the temporal generation of OB interneuron subtypes and demonstrate that the timing by which these populations are produced is tightly orchestrated.
Cortical analysis of speech has long been considered the domain of left-hemisphere auditory areas. A recent hypothesis poses that cortical processing of acoustic signals, including speech, is mediated bilaterally based on the component rates inherent to the speech signal. In support of this hypothesis, previous studies have shown that slow temporal features (3-5 Hz) in nonspeech acoustic signals lateralize to right-hemisphere auditory areas, whereas rapid temporal features (20-50 Hz) lateralize to the left hemisphere. These results were obtained using nonspeech stimuli, and it is not known whether right-hemisphere auditory cortex is dominant for coding the slow temporal features in speech known as the speech envelope. Here we show strong right-hemisphere dominance for coding the speech envelope, which represents syllable patterns and is critical for normal speech perception. Right-hemisphere auditory cortex was 100% more accurate in following contours of the speech envelope and had a 33% larger response magnitude while following the envelope compared with the left hemisphere. Asymmetries were evident regardless of the ear of stimulation despite dominance of contralateral connections in ascending auditory pathways. Results provide evidence that the right hemisphere plays a specific and important role in speech processing and support the hypothesis that acoustic processing of speech involves the decomposition of the signal into constituent temporal features by rate-specialized neurons in right- and left-hemisphere auditory cortex.
Synaptic vesicle recycling has been proposed to depend on proteins which coordinate membrane and cytoskeletal dynamics. Here, we examine the role of the dynamin- and N-WASP (neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein)-binding protein syndapin/PACSIN at the lamprey reticulospinal synapse. We find that presynaptic microinjection of syndapin antibodies inhibits vesicle recycling evoked by intense (5 Hz or more), but not by light (0.2 Hz) stimulation. This contrasts with the inhibition at light stimulation induced by perturbation of amphiphysin (Shupliakov et al., 1997). Inhibition by syndapin antibodies was associated with massive accumulation of membranous cisternae and invaginations around release sites, but not of coated pits at the plasma membrane. Cisternae contained vesicle membrane, as shown by vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2)/synaptobrevin 2 immunolabeling. Similar effects were observed when syndapin was perturbed before onset of massive endocytosis induced by preceding intense stimulation. Selective perturbation of the Src homology 3 domain interactions of syndapin was sufficient to induce vesicle depletion and accumulation of cisternae. Our data show an involvement of syndapin in synaptic vesicle recycling evoked by intense stimulation. We propose that syndapin is required to stabilize the plasma membrane and/or facilitate bulk endocytosis at high release rates.
Neurogenesis proceeds throughout adulthood in the brain of most mammalian species, but the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of stem/progenitor cell proliferation, survival, maturation, and differentiation have not been completely unraveled. We have studied hippocampal neurogenesis in NF-kappaB p50-deficient mice. Here we demonstrate that in absence of p50, the net rate of neural precursor proliferation does not change, but some of the steps leading to the final neuron differentiation status are hampered, resulting in approximately 50% reduction in the number of newly born neurons in the adult mutant hippocampus. Additionally, in p50(-/-) mice, we observed a selective defect in short-term spatial memory performance without impairment of hippocampal-dependent spatial long-term memory and learning. Our results highlight the role of NF-kappaB p50 in hippocampal neurogenesis and in short-term spatial memory.
Prion protein (PrP) is a normal component of neurons, which confers susceptibility to prion diseases. Despite its evolutionary conservation, its normal function remains controversial. PrP-deficient (Prnp(0/0)) mice have weaker afterhyperpolarizations (AHPs) in cerebellar and hippocampal neurons. Here we show that the AHP impairment in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells is selective for the slow AHP, and is not caused by an impairment of either voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels or Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels. Instead, Prnp(0/0) neurons have twofold to threefold stronger Ca(2+) buffering and double the Ca(2+) extrusion rate. In Prnp(0/0) neurons thapsigargin abolished the stronger Ca(2+) buffering and extrusion, and thapsigargin or cyclopiazonic acid abolished the weakening of the slow AHPs. These data implicate sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase in the enhanced Ca(2+) buffering, and extrusion into the endoplasmic reticulum, which contains substantial amounts of PrP in wild-type mice. Altered Ca(2+) homeostasis can explain several phenotypes identified in Prnp(0/0) mice.
A major site of extrahypothalamic expression of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and its G-protein-coupled CRF1 and CRF2 receptors is the amygdala, a key player in emotions and affective disorders. Pain-related plasticity in the laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) generates emotional-affective responses and anxiety-like behavior. CRF1 receptor antagonists have anxiolytic effects. Although both CRF1 and CRF2 receptors couple positively to adenylyl cyclase, they can have opposite effects, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. This study addressed CRF1 and CRF2 receptor functions and mechanisms in the amygdala in a model of arthritic pain. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of CeLC neurons, we found that a selective CRF1 receptor antagonist (NBI27914 [5-chloro-4-(N-(cyclopropyl)methyl-N-propylamino)-2-methyl-6-(2,4,6-trichlorophenyl)]) amino-pyridine inhibited synaptic facilitation in brain slices from arthritic rats through a postsynaptic mechanism. Inhibition of the NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic component was occluded by a protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, consistent with our previous demonstration of PKA-dependent increased NMDA receptor function in arthritis pain-related plasticity. NBI27914 also decreased neuronal excitability through inhibition of highly tetraethylammonium (TEA)-sensitive ion channels that contribute to action potential repolarization and firing rate. In contrast, a CRF2 receptor antagonist (astressin-2B [cyclo(31-34) [d-Phe11,His12,C alphaMeLeu13,39, Nle17, Glu31, Lys34] Ac-Sauvagine(8-40)]) facilitated synaptic transmission through presynaptic inhibition of GABAergic transmission (disinhibition). NBI27914 inhibited arthritis pain-related behaviors (audible and ultrasonic vocalizations and hindlimb withdrawal reflexes). Astressin-2B had no significant behavioral effect. The data suggest that endogenous CRF1 receptor activation in the amygdala contributes to pain-related synaptic facilitation, increased excitability, and pain behavior through a postsynaptic mechanism involving activation of PKA and highly TEA-sensitive K(+)-currents. Presynaptic CRF2 receptor-mediated inhibition does not reach behavioral significance.

During regeneration of injured peripheral nerves, local conditions may influence how regenerative axon sprouts emerge from parent axons. More extensive lesions might be expected to disrupt such growth. In this work, we discovered instead that long segmental crush injuries facilitate the growth and maturation of substantially more axon sprouts than do classical short crush injuries (20 mm length vs. 2 mm). At identical distances from the proximal site of axon interruption there was a 45% rise in the numbers of neurofilament labeled axons extending through a long segmental crush zone by 1 week. By 2 weeks, there was a 35% greater density of regenerating myelinated axons in long compared with short crush injuries just beyond (5 mm) the proximal injury site. Moreover, despite the larger numbers of axons, their maturity was identical and they were regular, parallel, associated with Schwann cells (SCs) and essentially indistinguishable between the injuries. Backlabeling with Fluorogold indicated that despite these differences, the axons arose from similar numbers of parent motor and sensory neurons. Neither injury was associated with ischemia. Both injuries were associated with rises in GFAP (glial acidic fibrillary protein) and p75 mRNAs, markers of SC plasticity but p75, GFAP and brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNAs did not differ between the injuries. There was a higher local mRNA level of GAP43/B50 at 7 days following injury and a higher sonic hedgehog protein (Shh) mRNA at 24 h in long crush zones. GAP43/B50 protein and SHH protein both had prominent localization within regenerating axons. Long segmental nerve trunk crush injuries do not impair regeneration but instead generate greater axon plasticity that results in larger numbers of mature myelinated axons. The changes occur without apparent change in SC activation, overall nerve architecture or nerve blood flow. While the mechanism is uncertain, the findings indicate that manipulation of the nerve microenvironment can induce substantial changes in regenerative sprouting.
We have previously shown that the atypical methylxanthine, propentofylline, reduces mechanical allodynia after peripheral nerve transection in a rodent model of neuropathy. In the present study, we sought to determine whether propentofylline-induced glial modulation alters spinal glutamate transporters, glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) and glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) in vivo, which may contribute to reduced behavioral hypersensitivity after nerve injury. In order to specifically examine the expression of the spinal glutamate transporters, a novel line of double transgenic GLT-1-enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP)/GLAST-Discosoma Red (DsRed) promoter mice was used. Adult mice received propentofylline (10 mg/kg) or saline via i.p. injection starting 1 h prior to L5-spinal nerve transection and then daily for 12 days. Mice receiving saline exhibited punctate expression of both eGFP (GLT-1 promoter activation) and DsRed (GLAST promoter activation) in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, which was decreased ipsilateral to nerve injury on day 12. Propentofylline administration reinstated promoter activation on the injured side as evidenced by an equal number of eGFP (GLT-1) and DsRed (GLAST) puncta in both dorsal horns. As demonstrated in previous studies, propentofylline induced a concomitant reversal of L5 spinal nerve transection-induced expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The ability of propentofylline to alter glial glutamate transporters highlights the importance of controlling aberrant glial activation in neuropathic pain and suggests one possible mechanism for the anti-allodynic action of this drug.
Despite the complete imprint of a visual scene on the retina, the brain selects particular items for further processing. However, there is considerable debate about when and where the first attentional effects take hold in the cortex. We examined the timing of face specificity and attentional influences in the primary/secondary visual cortex (V1/V2) and in the fusiform gyrus (FG) in two experiments using magnetoencephalography (MEG). In experiment 1, using a passive viewing task, we identified three components in response to &quot;Face,&quot; &quot;Hand,&quot; and &quot;Shoe&quot; stimuli bilaterally in the FG: M(FG)100, M(FG)170, and M(FG)200-all showing a stronger preference for faces. The timing of these three activations of the FG is consistent with earlier studies claiming distinct stages of processing of visual stimuli in the first 300 ms. In experiment 2, subjects performed a gender-discrimination task on either faces or hands, drawing attention to only one of the two object categories. In addition to the previously identified three components in FG, here we found object-selective attentional enhancement first appearing in V1/V2 at around 170 ms, and then in FG at around 200 ms, i.e. concurrent with the third component. No attentional effects were evident on the first or second magnetoencephalography components. These findings may indicate that the visual input for an object is first encoded and matched to an attended &quot;cue&quot; object held in mind. When the attended and encoded objects match, a third stage involving attentive processing is enhanced.
Midbrain dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra and retrorubral field play key roles in reward processing, learning and memory, and movement. Within these midbrain regions and admixed with the dopamine neurons, are also substantial populations of GABAergic neurons that regulate dopamine neuron activity and have projection targets similar to those of dopamine neurons. Additionally, there is a small group of putative glutamatergic neurons within the ventral tegmental area whose function remains unclear. Although dopamine neurons have been intensively studied and quantified, there is little quantitative information regarding the GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons. We therefore used unbiased stereological methods to estimate the number of dopaminergic, GABAergic and glutamatergic cells in these regions in the rat. Neurons were identified using a combination of immunohistochemistry (tyrosine hydroxylase) and in situ hybridization (glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 mRNA). In substantia nigra pars compacta 29% of cells were glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA-positive, 58% in the retrorubral field and 35% in the ventral tegmental area. There were further differences in the relative sizes of the GABAergic populations in subnuclei of the ventral tegmental area. Thus, glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA-positive neurons represented 12% of cells in the interfascicular nucleus, 30% in the parabrachial nucleus, and 45% in the parainterfascicular nucleus. Vesicular glutamate transporter 2 mRNA-positive neurons were present in the ventral tegmental area, but not substantia nigra or retrorubral field. They were mainly confined to the rostro-medial region of the ventral tegmental area, and represented approximately 2-3% of the total neurons counted ( approximately 1600 cells). These results demonstrate that GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons represent large proportions of the neurons in what are traditionally considered as dopamine nuclei and that there are considerable heterogeneities in the proportions of cell types in the different dopaminergic midbrain regions.
We have expressed A-FOS, an inhibitor of activator protein-1 (AP-1) DNA binding, in adult mouse striatal neurons. We observed normal behavior including locomotion and exploratory activities. Following a single injection of cocaine, locomotion increased similarly in both the A-FOS expressing and littermate controls. However, following repeated injections of cocaine, the A-FOS expressing mice showed increased locomotion relative to littermate controls, an increase that persisted following a week of withdrawal and subsequent cocaine administration. These results indicate that AP-1 suppresses this behavioral response to cocaine. We analyzed mRNA from the striatum before and 4 and 24 h after a single cocaine injection in both A-FOS and control striata using Affymetrix microarrays (430 2.0 Array) to identify genes mis-regulated by A-FOS that may mediate the increased locomotor sensitization to cocaine. A-FOS expression did not change gene expression in the basal state or 4 h following cocaine treatment relative to controls. However, 24 h after an acute cocaine treatment, 84 genes were identified that were differentially expressed between the A-FOS and control mice. Fifty-six genes are down-regulated while 28 genes are up-regulated including previously identified candidates for addiction including brain-derived neurotrophic factor and period homolog 1. Using a random sample of identified genes, quantitative PCR was used to verify the microarray studies. The chromosomal location of these 84 genes was compared with human genome scans of addiction to identify potential genes in humans that are involved in addiction.
We report on the cloning and molecular characterization of the rat carrier Slc10a4 and its cellular localization in the CNS by immunohistochemistry. Slc10a4 is the rat counterpart of the human orphan carrier SLC10A4, which was recently reported to be highly expressed in brain and placenta. Both carriers belong to the solute carrier family SLC10, formerly named the &quot;sodium/bile acid cotransporter family.&quot; So SLC10A4/Slc10a4 has a phylogenetic relationship to the Na+/taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide Ntcp (Slc10a1) and the apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter Asbt (Slc10a2). The rat Slc10a4 protein consists of 437 amino acids and exhibits a seven transmembrane domain topology with N(exo)/C(cyt)trans-orientation of the N- and C-terminal ends. Expression of the Slc10a4 protein was detected in motor regions of the spinal cord and rhombencephalon, as well as in mesopontine cholinergic neurons, the medial habenula, cholinergic areas of the forebrain, and the gut myenteric plexus. Co-localization studies with the cholinergic marker proteins choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), and high-affinity choline transporter (CHT1) demonstrated expression of Slc10a4 in cholinergic neurons. Despite its close phylogenetic relationship to Ntcp, Slc10a4 showed no transport activity for the Ntcp substrates taurocholate, estrone-3-sulfate, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, and pregnenolone sulfate when expressed in HEK293 cells or Xenopus laevis oocytes. Slc10a4 also did not transport choline, which is a substrate of CHT1. Although the functional properties of Slc10a4 could not be elucidated in this study, Slc10a4 is regarded as a new marker protein for cholinergic neurons in the rat CNS.
It remains unclear what neuronal mechanisms in humans are reflected in the activation of the ipsilateral hemisphere during the performance of unilateral movements. To address this question we combined transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), electroencephalography (EEG), and electromyographic (EMG) recordings of motor evoked potentials (MEPs). Compared with previous TMS studies, where changes in excitability might be related to both cortical and spinal mechanisms, our setup allowed a more direct evaluation of the cortical processes related to the performance of unilateral movements. EEG responses showed that the unilateral motor reactions were associated with the bilateral increase in the excitability of sensorimotor cortices. However, this increase was smaller in the ipsilateral hemisphere most likely due to the fact that the excitation in ipsilateral hemisphere coincided with additional inhibitory processes related to the suppression of mirror movements. This explanation was further corroborated by showing that only contralateral changes in cortical excitability led to the increase in the amplitude of peripheral MEPs, while neuronal activation in the ipsilateral hemisphere was not associated with the changes in the muscle responses. These results suggest that the increased excitability in the ipsilateral hemisphere was uncoupled from the modulation of the cortico-spinal output. Moreover, we show that the background neuronal activity during unilateral movements was different in the ipsi- and contralateral hemisphere. This difference most likely reflects inter-hemispheric balance between the excitation and inhibition which is required for the optimal performance of the unilateral movement.
Estradiol has been shown to have neuroprotective effects, and acute estradiol treatment enhances hippocampal neurogenesis in the female brain. However, little is known about the effects of repeated administration of estradiol on the female brain, or about the effects of estradiol on the male brain. Gonadectomized male and female adult rats were injected with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) (200 mg/kg), and then 24 h later were given subcutaneous injections of either estradiol benzoate (33 mug/kg) or vehicle daily for 15 days. On day 16, animals were perfused and the brains processed to examine cells expressing Ki-67 (cell proliferation), BrdU (cell survival), doublecortin (young neuron production), pyknotic morphology (cell death), activated caspase-3 (apoptosis), and Fluoro-Jade B (degenerating neurons) in the dentate gyrus. In female rats, repeated administration of estradiol decreased the survival of new neurons (independent of any effects on initial cell proliferation), slightly increased cell proliferation, and decreased overall cell death in the dentate gyrus. In male rats, repeated administration of estradiol had no significant effect on neurogenesis or cell death. We therefore demonstrate a clear sex difference in the response to estradiol of hippocampal neurogenesis and apoptosis in adult rats, with adult females being more responsive to the effects of estradiol than males.
Permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) causes neuronal cell death in the striatum and cortex. In rodents, estradiol treatment protects the cortex from cell death in an estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) dependent manner. ERalpha is only transiently expressed in the cortex during neonatal development and is very low in uninjured adult cortex. Following MCAO, ERalpha mRNA expression is upregulated in the cortex of female rats, but the mechanism of this increase is still unknown. It is also unknown whether a similar increase in ERalpha expression in seen in males. In the following studies, male and vehicle or estradiol-treated ovariectomized (OVX) female rats underwent MCAO to investigate the regulation of ERalpha expression after ischemia. Twenty-four hours after surgery, mRNA or genomic DNA was collected from 1 mm micropunches taken from 300 mum brain sections for quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or methylation-specific (MSP) PCR, respectively. Additionally, adjacent 20 mum sections were processed for ERalpha immunohistochemistry. In OVX females, ERalpha mRNA and protein were increased in the ischemic cortex, but unchanged in males. We hypothesized that this increase in ERalpha in females is due to a reversal of gene silencing by DNA methylation. Using MSP targeting of CpG islands within the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of the rat ERalpha gene, we found that ischemia decreased methylation in the ischemic cortex of both groups of females, but there was no change in methylation in males. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we found that MeCP2 associates with ERalpha 5'UTR corresponding with the methylation status of the promoter. These data are the first to demonstrate a difference in the regulation of ERalpha expression in response to MCAO between males and females and that methylation of the ERalpha gene corresponds with mRNA levels in the brain.
Depression is strongly related to social behavior. We have previously shown that social behavior of rats is individually stable. The purpose of the present study was to compare the sensitivity of animals with different sociability to chronic variable stress (CVS). Four social interaction tests were performed with 60 single-housed male Sprague-Dawley rats. Twenty rats with the lowest and 20 with the highest average social activity time were selected as low sociability (LS) and high sociability (HS) rats, respectively. Both groups were further divided into control and stress groups with equal average body weight. The CVS procedure lasted for 3 weeks. The stressors applied were cold water and wet bedding, imitation of injection, stroboscopic light, movement restriction in a small cage, tail pinch with a clothespin, and strong illumination during the predicted dark phase. In HS-rats, but not in LS-rats, CVS reduced sucrose intake compared with baseline after 3 weeks, suggesting that HS-rats are more vulnerable to anhedonia elicited by CVS. LS-animals were more anxious in the social interaction and open field tests, but stress eliminated differences with HS-animals in the social interaction test and increased their activity in the forced swimming test. In LS-rats stress increased ex vivo dopamine levels and reduced 5-HT levels in the frontal cortex, suggesting that the increased behavioral activity after stress may be related to increased impulsivity. This study thus revealed that animals with high sociability trait are more vulnerable to anhedonia elicited by chronic stress in conditions of single housing.
Estrogens act upon ventromedial hypothalamic (VMH) neurons, and their effects on female arousal and sexual behaviors mediated by VMH neurons involve several neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. Among these are opioid peptides which might be predicted to oppose estrogenic action on VMH because they tend to decrease CNS arousal. Spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents were recorded from VMH neurons from 17beta-estradiol- (E, 10 mug/0.1 ml) or oil-treated control ovariectomized (OVX) mice using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. To examine the impact of opioidergic inputs, recordings of neurons from both treatment groups were obtained in the presence of the general opioid receptor agonist methionine enkephalin-Arg-Phe (MERF, 3 muM), or mu-receptor specific agonist [d-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO, 1 muM). Compared with oil, E treatment for 48 h significantly increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) without affecting their amplitude. MERF and DAMGO each abolished this E effect, causing significant reductions in sEPSCs. The effect of MERF was abolished by naltrexone (general opioid receptor antagonist, 3 muM) and the effect of DAMGO by d-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTAP) (mu-opioid receptor selective antagonist, 1 muM); in contrast, kappa- and delta-opioid receptor agonists, U69593 (300 nM) and [d-Pen(2),d-Pen(5)]-enkephalin (DPDPE, 1 muM) respectively, had little effect on the sEPSCs compared with DAMGO. To consider presynaptic vs. postsynaptic effects of opioids, miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) were investigated in E- and oil-treated VMH neurons and opioid receptor antagonist effects on mEPSCs were observed. Both MERF and DAMGO reduced the frequency of mEPSCs, but had no effect on their amplitude. Our findings indicate that opioids suppress excitatory synaptic transmissions in VMH neurons primarily through mu-receptors and could thereby decrease sexual arousal in mice.
Previously we reported that sulfhydryl (SH) modulation affects the susceptibility of rat hippocampal slices to severe hypoxia. SH-oxidation by DTNB (5,5'-dithiobis 2-nitrobenzoic acid) or H2O2 postponed the onset of hypoxia-induced spreading depression (HSD), thereby delaying the loss of neuronal function, whereas SH-reduction by DTT (1,4-dithio-dl-threitol) hastened HSD onset. To judge the neuroprotective merit that might arise from a postponement of HSD by oxidants, we have extended our earlier observations by multiparametric recordings and screened for changes in the extracellular K+ accumulation, HSD propagation velocity, and its maximum spread. As parameters for neuronal network function, the failure of synapses during hypoxia and their posthypoxic recovery were analyzed. DTNB (2 mM) or H2O2 (5 mM) postponed HSD but did not attenuate the rise in extracellular K+ concentration ([K+](o)), HSD propagation velocity or its maximum spread. H2O2 slightly postponed the synaptic failure during hypoxia; the posthypoxic recovery of synapses was, however, incomplete. DTNB slowed the synaptic recovery upon reoxygenation. DTT (2 mM) hastened HSD onset, but HSD propagation velocity and tissue invasion were not affected. Upon reoxygenation, however, normalization of [K+](o) was disturbed and synaptic recovery failed. Therefore, SH-reducing conditions at the onset of HSD proved to be devastating for the hippocampal network. In conclusion, the only merit of DTNB or H2O2 treatment is a delayed HSD onset, i.e. some extra time before neuronal function is lost during severe hypoxia. Attenuation of the severe changes during HSD or an improved outcome was not observed. Nevertheless, combination of SH-oxidants with established neuroprotectants might be a potential therapeutic approach.
Klotho mutant mice, defective in the klotho gene, develop multiple age-related disorders with very short lifespans. Introduction of the exogenous klotho gene into these mutant mice leads to an improvement in their phenotypes, while overexpression of this gene in wild-type mice significantly extends their lifespan. These observations suggest that the klotho gene/protein has an anti-aging function. Since there have been only a few reports with some disagreement about results on the CNS of the mutant mice, we tried to clarify whether the CNS neurons generate aging-like features, even in premature stages, using biochemical and morphological approaches. Results obtained from the mutant mice, when compared with wild-type mice, were as follows. Neurofilaments (NFs) were increased significantly in axons, with the subunit proteins showing a significant enhancement in phosphorylation or expression of NF-H or NF-L, respectively. Microtubules in Purkinje cell dendrites were closer to each other, and in the CNS tissue tubulin was unaltered, but microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 2 was significantly reduced in expression. Neuronal cellular organelles were morphologically disordered. Lysosomes, cathepsin D and light chain 3 of MAP1A/B (LC3) were augmented with the appearance of putative autophagy-related structures. Antiapoptotic Bcl-xL and proapoptotic Bax were reduced and enhanced, respectively, and mitogen-activated protein kinase was reduced. Synapse-related proteins and structures were decreased. Neuronal degeneration was evident in hippocampal pyramidal cells, and possibly in Purkinje cells. Astrocytic glial filaments and glial fibrillary acidic protein were increased in density and expression, respectively. Together, the CNS neuronal alterations in klotho mutant mice were quite similar to those found in aged animals, including even premature death, so this mouse should be a more appropriate animal model for CNS aging than those previously reported.
Previous research has suggested that the ventrolateral column of the periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) plays a crucial role in triggering a decompensatory response (sympathoinhibition, hypotension, bradycardia) to severe blood loss. vlPAG excitation triggers also quiescence, decreased vigilance and decreased reactivity, the behavioral response which usually accompanies hypovolemic shock. The aim of this study was to identify, in unanesthetized rats, the main descending pathway(s) via which vlPAG neurons trigger sympathoinhibition and bradycardia in response to severe blood loss. Firstly, immediate early gene (c-Fos) expression was used to identify vlPAG neurons selectively activated by severe blood loss. Subsequently, the specific medullary projections of these vlPAG neurons were defined by combined c-Fos, retrograde tracing (double-label) experiments. It was found that vlPAG neurons selectively activated by severe hemorrhage project overwhelmingly to the vasodepressor portion of the caudal midline medulla (CMM). Previous studies indicate that this CMM region mediates behaviorally-coupled cardiovascular adjustments and the findings described here fit with the idea that CMM neurons are uniquely recruited by salient challenges, the adaptive responses to which require more than reflexive homeostatic cardiovascular adjustments.
Tissue levels of anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) have been determined in 16 regions and nuclei from human brains, using liquid chromatography/in-line mass spectrometry. Measurements in brain samples stored at -80 degrees C for 2 months to 13 years indicated that endocannabinoids were stable under such conditions. In contrast, the postmortal delay had a strong effect on brain endocannabinoid levels, as documented in brain samples microdissected and frozen 1-6 h postmortem, and in neurosurgical samples 0, 5, 30, 60, 180 and 360 min after their removal from the brain. The tissue levels of AEA increased continuously and in a region-dependent manner from 1 h after death, increasing about sevenfold by 6 h postmortem. In contrast, concentrations of 2-AG, which were 10-100 times higher in human brain regions than those of AEA, rapidly declined: within the first hour, 2-AG levels dropped to 25-35% of the initial ('0 min') value, thereafter they remained relatively stable. As analyzed in samples removed 1-1.5 h postmortem, AEA levels ranged from a high of 96.3 fmol/mg tissue in the nucleus accumbens to a low of 25.0 fmol/mg in the cerebellum. 2-AG levels varied eightfold, from 8.6 pmol/mg in the lateral hypothalamus to 1.1 pmol/mg in the nucleus accumbens. Relative levels of AEA and 2-AG varied from region to region, with the 2-AG:AEA ratio being high in the sensory spinal trigeminal nucleus (140:1), the spinal dorsal horn (136:1) and the lateral hypothalamus (98:1) and low in the nucleus accumbens (16:1) and the striatum (31:1). The results highlight the pitfall of analyzing endocannabinoid content in brain samples of variable postmortal delay, and document differential distribution of the two main endocannabinoids in the human brain.
Phosphorylation of tau and phosphorylation of alpha-synuclein are crucial abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and alpha-synucleinopathies (Parkinson's disease: PD, and dementia with Lewy bodies: DLB), respectively. The presence and distribution of phospho-tau were examined by sub-fractionation, gel electrophoresis and Western blotting in the frontal cortex of cases with AD at different stages of disease progression, PD, DLB pure form and common form, and in age-matched controls. Phospho-tauSer396 has been found in synaptic-enriched fractions in AD frontal cortex at entorhinal/transentorhinal, limbic and neocortical stages, thus indicating early tau phosphorylation at the synapses in AD before the occurrence of neurofibrillary tangles in the frontal cortex. Phospho-tauSer396 is also found in synaptic-enriched fractions in the frontal cortex in PD and DLB pure and common forms, thus indicating increased tau phosphorylation at the synapses in these alpha-synucleinopathies. Densitometric studies show between 20% and 40% phospho-tauSer396, in relation with tau-13, in synaptic-enriched fractions of the frontal cortex in AD stages I-III, and in PD and DLB. The percentage reaches about 95% in AD stage V and DLB common form. Yet tau phosphorylation characteristic of neurofibrillary tangles, as revealed with the AT8 antibody, is found in the synaptic fractions of the frontal cortex only at advanced stages of AD. Increased phosphorylated alpha-synucleinSer129 levels are observed in the synaptic-enriched fractions of the frontal cortex in PD and DLB pure and common forms, and in advanced stages of AD. Since tau-hyperphosphorylation has implications in microtubule assembly, and phosphorylation of alpha-synuclein at Ser129 favors alpha-synuclein aggregation, it can be suggested that synapses are targets of abnormal tau and alpha-synuclein phosphorylation in both groups of diseases. Tau phosphorylation at Ser396 has also been found in synaptic-enriched fractions in 12-month-old transgenic mice bearing the A53T alpha-synuclein mutation.
In postmortem brains of patients with major depression, the expression of corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) is enhanced and that of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) decreased. In mice over-expressing neuronal CRF (an animal model for depression) the expression of urocortin 1 (Ucn1) in the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW) is strongly down-regulated. Therefore, we hypothesized that an altered activity of Ucn1 neurons in the npEW would contribute to the pathogenesis of major depression. To test this hypothesis we measured Ucn1 mRNA and BDNF mRNA levels in the npEW of seven male and four female, drug-free suicide victims with major depression, and compared the data with those obtained from 10 male and seven female individuals without neurological and psychiatric disorders (controls). We show that compared with controls, the Ucn1-mRNA level in npEW neurons is about 9.12 times higher in male but unchanged in female suicide victims. Furthermore, BDNF mRNA expression in microdissections of npEW was 3.36 times lower in male suicide victims, but 5.27 times higher in female victims, compared with controls. Our data also show that male suicide victims had almost 11.47 times more Ucn1 and 4.26 times less BDNF mRNA in the npEW than female suicide victims. We discuss the significance of these data for npEW Ucn1 and BDNF, and propose that altered expressions of Ucn1 and BDNF in the npEW contribute to the pathogenesis of major depression and/or suicidality in a gender-specific manner.
Several studies using animal models have suggested that the effects of nutritional insult on the developing brain are long-lasting and lead to permanent deficits in learning and behavior. Malnutrition can refer to the availability of all the nutrients but in insufficient quantities or it may imply that one or more of essential nutrients is either missing or is present, but in the wrong proportions in the diet. The hypothesis addressed in this study is that different domains of cognitive functioning can be affected by malnutrition and this can be related to the type of nutritional deficiency that the brain has been exposed to during development. To study the effect of nutritional deprivation during brain development, a paradigm of maternal malnutrition during the period of gestation and lactation was used and its effects were studied on the F1 offspring using Swiss albino mice. Three different types of malnutrition were used, that involve, caloric restriction, inadequate amount of protein in the diet and condition of low iron content. Our results show that the domain of spatial memory affected in the F1 generation depended on the kind of malnutrition that the mother was subjected to. Further our study shows that although hippocampal volume was reduced in all F1 pups, hippocampal subregions of the F1 animals were differentially vulnerable depending on type of malnutrition that the mother was subjected to. These results highlight the importance of qualifying the kind of malnutrition that is suffered by the mother during the period of gestation and lactation as it has consequences for the cognitive domain affected in the offspring. Awareness of this should inform prevention strategies in trying to reverse the effects of adverse maternal nutrition during critical periods in brain development.
Recently, we have reported that melittin, a major toxic peptide of the whole bee venom, plays a central role in production of local inflammation, nociception and hyperalgesia following the experimental honeybee's sting. However, the exact peripheral mechanisms underlying melittin-induced multiple pain-related behaviors are still less characterized. In the present study, we sought to investigate the potential roles of peripheral mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in melittin-induced nociception and hyperalgesia by pre- and post-administration of three MAPK inhibitors, namely U0126 (1 mug, 10 mug) for extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), SP600125 (10 mug, 100 mug) for c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and SB239063 (10 mug, 100 mug) for p38 MAPK, into the local inflamed area of one hind paw of rats. Both pre- and post-treatment with three drugs significantly suppressed the occurrence and maintenance of melittin-evoked persistent spontaneous nociception (PSN) and primary heat hyperalgesia, with little antinociceptive effect on mechanical hyperalgesia. In vehicle-treated group, ipsilateral injection of melittin produced no impact on thermal and mechanical sensitivity of the other hind paw, suggesting no occurrence of contralateral heat and mechanical hyperalgesia in the melittin test. In addition, local administration of each inhibitor into the contralateral hind paw exerted no significant influence on either PSN or heat/mechanical hyperalgesia tested in the primary injured hind paw, excluding the systemically pharmacological effects of the three drugs. Furthermore, local administration of the three compounds in nave animals, respectively, did not change the basal pain sensitivity to either thermal or mechanical stimuli, suggesting lack of peripherally functional roles of the three MAPK subfamily members in normal pain sensitivity under the physiological state. Taken together, we conclude that activation of peripheral MAPKs, including ERK, JNK and p38, might contribute to the induction and maintenance of persistent ongoing pain and primary heat hyperalgesia in the melittin test. However, they are not likely to be involved in the processing of melittin-induced primary mechanical hyperalgesia, implicating a mechanistic separation between mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in the periphery.
Numerous studies have documented the consequences of exposure to anesthesia in models of term and post-term infants, evaluating the incidence of cell loss, physiological alterations and cognitive dysfunction. However, surprisingly few studies have investigated the effect of anesthetic exposure on outcomes in newborn rodents, the developmental equivalent of premature human infants. This is critical given that one out of every eight babies born in the United States is premature, with an increased prevalence of surgical procedures required in these individuals. Also, no studies have investigated if the genetic sex of the individual influences the response to neonatal anesthesia. Using the newborn rat as the developmental equivalent of the premature human, we documented the effect of a single bout of exposure to either the inhalant isoflurane or the injectable barbiturate phenobarbital on hippocampal anatomy, hippocampal dependent behavioral performance and normal developmental endpoints in male and female rats. While both forms of anesthesia led to significant decrements in cognitive abilities, along with a significant reduction in volume and neuron number in the hippocampus in adulthood, the decrements were significantly greater in males than in females. Interestingly, the deleterious effects of anesthesia were manifest on developmental measures including surface righting and forelimb grasp, but were not evident on basic physiological parameters including body weight or suckling. These findings point to the hazardous effects of exposure to anesthesia on the developing CNS and the particular sensitivity of males to deficits.
The neural cell adhesion molecule NCAM and its dynamically regulated posttranslational modification polysialic acid (PSA) are major determinants of cellular interactions during ontogeny. While NCAM in the absence of PSA stabilizes cell-cell interactions, the attachment of the large and polyanionic PSA negatively influences cell adhesion and promotes plasticity. Disease-associated changes in the polysialylation state of NCAM raise the question whether the PSA-NCAM system can affect CNS pharmacology. Here we investigated the pharmacological effects of the competitive AMPA antagonist NBQX in genetic mouse models either lacking NCAM and PSA (female NCAM knockout mice) or being drastically reduced in the level of PSA expression (female ST8SiaIV knockout mice). Studies were carried out with the respective wildtype littermate controls. In mice lacking NCAM and PSA, NBQX-induced ataxia proved to be more intense as compared with wild-type mice. On both mutant backgrounds, NBQX significantly elevated seizure thresholds during i.v. infusion of the chemoconvulsant pentylenetetrazole. In summary, the data demonstrate that the PSA-NCAM system impacts AMPA receptor pharmacology under in vivo conditions. The fact that comparable effects were observed in NCAM- and ST8SiaIV-knockout mice indicates that this impact is not due to a stabilizing effect of NCAM in the absence of PSA. Thus, disease-related changes in the polysialylation of NCAM are likely to be associated with effects on the efficacy and tolerability of AMPA receptor antagonists.
To determine whether corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 (CRHR1) coexists with endothelin-1 (ET-1) in rat paraventricular nucleus (PVN), ET-1 expression and its regulation by CRH and CRHR1 under hypoxia, rats were exposed to simulated continuous hypoxia at 5 km altitude (CH5km, equal to 10.8% O(2)) in a hypobaric chamber for 1, 2, 5, 10, 15 or 25 days. ET-1, CRH, and its mRNA were measured using radioimmunoassay (RIA), immunohistochemistry, and in situ hybridization. The coexistence of ET-1 and CRHR1 was identified by confocal immunofluorescence. The results showed that CH5km caused a significant decrease of ET-1 level in PVN at 5 days, but decreased CRH on days 1 and 2 while it increased on days 5 and 10. CH5km induced ET-1 mRNA upregulation and ET-1 decrease at 5 days, the effects were completely reversed by treatment with five-daily-injections of a CRHR1 antagonist (butyl-[2,5-dimethyl-7-(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)-7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d] pyrimidin-4-yl]-ethylamine: CP-154,526). Also, this treatment significantly reversed the CH5km-induced increase in CRH and CRHmRNA in PVN at 5 days. Moreover we found that the changes in expression of ET-1 and CRHR1 induced by CH5km were co-localized in parvocellular PVN cells. In conclusion, CRHR1 coexists with ET-1 in parvocellular PVN, continuous hypoxia stimulates ET-1 and ET-1mRNA as well as CRH and CRHmRNA, and CRHR1 evidently modulates ET-1 release and ET-1mRNA activation caused by continuous hypoxia.
There is evidence that prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) facilitates the seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), but the role of PGE2 receptors (EPs) in the development of seizures has not been evaluated to date. In the current study we investigated whether selective EP ligands alter PTZ-induced seizures in adult male Wistar rats by electrographic methods. Selective antagonists for EP1 (SC-19220, 10 nmol, i.c.v.), EP3 (L-826266, 1 nmol, i.c.v.) and EP4 (L-161982, 750 pmol, i.c.v.) receptors, and the selective EP2 agonist butaprost (100 pmol, i.c.v.) increased the latency for clonic and generalized tonic-clonic seizures induced by PTZ. These data constitute pharmacological evidence supporting a role for EPs in the seizures induced by PTZ. Although more studies are necessary to fully evaluate the anticonvulsant role these compounds and their use in the clinics, EP ligands may represent new targets for drug development for convulsive disorders.
We examined proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA and beta-endorphin expression in the hypothalamus of mice after various nociceptive stimuli. The time-course study (10 min, 30 min, 1 h, 2 h, and 10 h) showed that the POMC mRNA level significantly increases from 1 h after s.c. formalin injection and returns to the control level at 10 h. Intrathecal (i.t.) substance P (SP) injection also increases the hypothalamic POMC mRNA level from 1 h to 10 h. However, i.t. glutamate injection did not affect the hypothalamic POMC gene expression at all time points. We found that the POMC mRNA after s.c. formalin injection was located in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. In the same manner, beta-endorphin immunoreactivity was also increased in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. The expression of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (pERK1/2), phosphorylated calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-IIalpha (pCaMK-IIalpha) protein and phosphorylated IkappaB (pIkappaB) protein was increased by s.c. formalin injection at various time points. We also found that increased pERK1/2, pCaMKIIalpha and pIkappaB protein after s.c. formalin injection was mainly located in the arcuate nucleus of hypothalamus in which cells containing beta-endorphin after s.c. formalin injection also express pERK1/2, pCaMK-IIalpha and pIkappaB immunoreactivity. In addition, formalin-induced POMC mRNA expression was significantly reduced by 10 min, pretreatment with i.c.v. PD98059 (mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways inhibitor; 6.6 mug) and KN93 (pCaMK-II inhibitor; 20 mug). In conclusion, POMC mRNA expression in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus was increased by inflammatory pain stimuli, in which pERK1/2, pCaMK-IIalpha and NFkappaB may play an important role in the expression of the hypothalamic POMC gene and beta-endorphin expression.
An electron microscopic analysis has been carried out on the effects of age on the numerical density of both excitatory (asymmetric) and inhibitory (symmetric) synapses in the neuropil of layers 2/3 and of layer 5 in area 46 from the frontal cortex of behaviorally tested rhesus monkeys. There is no change in the lengths of synaptic junctions with age or in the percentage distribution of synapses relative to the postsynaptic spines and dendritic shafts. However, in layers 2/3 there is an overall loss of about 30% of synapses from 5 to 30 years of age, and both asymmetric and symmetric synapses are lost at the same rate. In layer 5 the situation is different; the overall loss of synapses is only 20% and this is almost entirely due to a loss of asymmetric synapses, since there is no significant loss of symmetric synapses from this layer with age. When the synapse data are correlated with the overall cognitive impairment shown by the monkeys, it is found that there is a strong correlation between the numerical density of asymmetric synapses in layers 2/3 and cognitive impairment, with a weaker correlation between symmetric synapse loss and cognitive impairment. In layer 5 on the other hand there is no correlation between synapse loss and cognitive impairment. However synapse loss is not the only factor causing cognitive impairment, since in previous studies of area 46 we have found that age-related alteration in myelin in this frontal area also significantly contributes to cognitive decline. The synapse loss is also considered in light of earlier studies, which show that the frequency of spontaneous excitatory synaptic responses is reduced with age in layers 2/3 neurons.
This study was designed to determine the organization of nociceptive inputs with different behavioral significance into spinal-brainstem circuits in the rat. Induction of Fos protein was used to localize spinal dorsal horn and hypothalamic neurons activated by noxious heating of the hind paw dorsum at rates known to preferentially activate C- or A-heat nociceptors. This was combined with retrograde transport of cholera toxin subunit B from the dorsolateral/lateral- (DL/L-) or the ventrolateral- (VL-) periaqueductal gray (PAG) in order to map the organization of A- and C-fiber input to spinal-brainstem circuits. The majority of dorsal horn heat-activated neurons were located in laminae I and II. A significantly larger proportion of C-fiber-activated neurons projected to the VL-PAG (P&lt;0.05) compared with its DL/L-sector. In contrast, there was no columnar separation in the projections of A-fiber-activated neurons. However, a significantly greater proportion of A-fiber-activated neurons (P&lt;0.05) were retrogradely labeled from the DL/L-PAG, when compared with C-fiber-activated neurons. A large proportion (25-50%) of A- and C-fiber-activated neurons in the lateral spinal nucleus projected to the PAG. A-fiber-activated neurons were found throughout the rostral hypothalamus but those projecting to the PAG were focused in the lateral area of the anterior hypothalamus (LAAH), from where approximately 20% projected to the VL-PAG, which was significantly more than to the DL/L PAG (P&lt;0.05). We hypothesize that the organization of A- versus C-fiber inputs to the PAG enables the coordination of coping strategies appropriate to meet the demands imposed by these different noxious stimuli. Hypothalamic-PAG projections activated by A-fiber inputs did not reflect this level of organization and we suggest that this may relate to their role in thermoregulation as opposed to autonomic responses to particular nociceptive inputs.
Clinical and basic studies have indicated that upper cervical spinal cord stimulation (cSCS) significantly increases cerebral blood flow (CBF), but the mechanisms are incompletely understood. This investigation was conducted to differentiate between stimulation of dorsal column fibers and upper cervical spinal cord cell bodies in cSCS-induced increases in CBF and decreases in cerebrovascular resistance (CVR). cSCS (50 Hz, 0.2 ms, 1 min) was applied on the left C1-C2 dorsal column of pentobarbital anesthetized, ventilated and paralyzed male rats. Laser Doppler flowmetry probes were placed bilaterally over the parietal cortex, and arterial pressure was monitored. cSCS at 30%, 60%, and 90% of motor threshold (MT) produced vasodilation bilaterally in cerebral cortices. Subsequently, cSCS was applied at 90% MT, and ipsilateral responses were recorded. Ibotenic acid (0.3 mg/ml, 0.1 ml) placed on dorsal surface of C1-C2 (n=7) to suppress cell body activity, did not affect cSCS-induced %DeltaCBF (42.5+/-8.1% vs. 36.8+/-7.1%, P&gt;0.05) and %DeltaCVR (-19.4+/-4.2% vs. -15.2+/-5.6%, P&gt;0.05). However, bilateral transection of the dorsal column at rostral C1 (n=8) abolished cSCS-induced changes in CBF and CVR. Also, rostral C1 transection (n=7) abolished cSCS-induced changes in CBF and CVR. Resinferatoxin (RTX), an ultrapotent transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) agonist, was used to inactivate TRPV1 containing nerve fibers/cell bodies. RTX (2 microg/ml, 0.1 ml) placed on the C1-C2 spinal cord (n=7) did not affect cSCS-induced %DeltaCBF (60.2+/-8.1% vs. 46.3+/-7.7%, P&gt;0.05) and %DeltaCVR (-25.5+/-3.5% vs. -21.4+/-8.9%, P&gt;0.05). However, i.v. RTX (2 microg/kg, n=9) decreased cSCS-induced %DeltaCBF from 65.0+/-9.5% to 27.4+/-7.2% (P&lt;0.05) and %DeltaCVR from -28.0+/-7.6% to -14.8+/-4.2% (P&lt;0.05). These results indicated that cSCS-increases in CBF and decreases in CVR occurred via rostral spinal dorsal column fibers and did not depend upon C1-C2 cell bodies. Also, our results suggested that cerebral but not spinal TRPV1 was involved in cSCS-induced cerebral vasodilation.

In the human brain, auditory sensory memory has been extensively studied using a well-defined component of event-related potential named the mismatch negativity (MMN). The MMN is generated in the auditory and frontal cortices in response to deviant stimuli. In monkeys, cortical N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors have a central role in the generation of the MMN. MMN-like responses have also been recorded in other animals, including rats. The present study aimed at determining whether the MMN-like response in rats depends on an intact NMDA-receptor system. We recorded auditory evoked responses during an oddball paradigm epidurally in anesthetized rats that had received intraperitoneal injections of saline or an NMDA-receptor antagonist MK-801. An MMN-like response was recorded in the oddball paradigm in saline-treated rats. Further, this response was dose-dependently blocked by MK-801. These results suggest that the MMN-like response in rats depends on an intact NMDA-receptor system.
Two distinct norepinephrine (NE) transporter mechanisms (uptake 1 and uptake 2) regulate extracellular NE concentrations. An association has been observed between the gradual improvement in patients treated with antidepressants that inhibit the NE transporter (NET/uptake 1) and increases in urinary normetanephrine, the O-methylated NE metabolite and potent inhibitor of uptake 2. These observations led to the hypothesis that increased levels of normetanephrine, and consequently inhibition of uptake 2, may partly be responsible for the clinical efficacy of some antidepressants. To investigate this hypothesis, we employed microdialysis techniques in the rat frontal cortex to monitor extracellular changes in normetanephrine following chronic administration of the clinically effective antidepressant, venlafaxine (a serotonin (5-HT) and NE reuptake inhibitor). We evaluated the neurochemical effects of inhibiting uptake 2 alone, or in conjunction with venlafaxine, on extracellular levels of NE and 5-HT. Chronic venlafaxine administration (14 days, 10 mg/kg, s.c.) elicited significant increases in cortical NE and 5-HT while producing a non-significant trend to increase cortical levels of normetanephrine. Additional studies revealed that combining normetanephrine with venlafaxine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), at a dose of normetanephrine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) that did not produce changes in extracellular levels of NE on its own, potentiated antidepressant-induced increases in extracellular NE. We also report mouse behavioral data involving the tail suspension test that complement the neurochemical observations. These preclinical findings, taken together, suggest that inhibiting both uptake 1 and uptake 2 via venlafaxine and normetanephrine, respectively, elicits a greater increase in cortical levels of NE than inhibiting either transporter alone.
Differentiation of neural progenitor cells of neuroblastoma, pheochromocytoma, and surrogate stem cell lineages from a state resembling stem cells to a state resembling neurons is accompanied by a marked attenuation in induction of the heat shock protein 70 promoter driven-luciferase reporter gene, and induction of the reporter gene in primary embryonic neurons from hippocampus, cortex, and spinal cord is lower still when compared to the differentiated cells. Neural specificity of this phenotype is demonstrated by a negative correlation of hsp70-reporter gene expression and neurite extension under various experimental conditions. Analysis of biochemical events involved in induction of the heat shock response (HSR) reveal a blunted activation of HSF1 DNA-binding activity, and decreased induction of the mRNA(hsp70) and the 72 kDa HSP70 protein. Immunocytochemical staining for HSP70 demonstrates a cytoplasmic staining pattern; heat shock greatly increased the HSP70 staining intensity in the undifferentiated cells and less so in the differentiated cells. Vulnerability of the differentiated cells towards the oxidizer, arsenite, and the excitotoxic glutamate/glycine is demonstrated by the dose-dependent cytotoxic effects of these agents on cell viability and activation of caspase 3/7. Importantly, conditioning heat shock as well as increased expression of HSP70 by gene transfer conferred protection against such cytotoxicity. Together, our results show that neural differentiation is associated with a decreased induction of the heat shock response and an increased vulnerability to stress induced pathologies and death.
The avian brainstem serves as a useful model to answer the question of how afferent activity influences the viability of target neurons. Approximately 20-30% of neurons in the avian cochlear nucleus, nucleus magnocellularis (NM) die following deafferentation (i.e., deafness produced by cochlea removal). Interestingly, Bcl-2 mRNA (but not protein) is upregulated in 20-30% of NM neurons following deafferentation. We have recently shown that chronic treatments of lithium upregulates the neuroprotective protein Bcl-2 and increases neuronal survival following deafferentation. The pathways leading to the upregulation of Bcl-2 expression following these two manipulations are unknown. The present experiments examine changes in glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (Gsk-3beta), and transcription factors nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB), beta-catenin, and pCreb following lithium administration and following deafferentation. These molecules are known to be influenced by lithium and to regulate Bcl-2 expression in other model systems. Lithium decreased immunolabeling for Gsk-3beta and increased expression for all three transcription factors. Deafferentation, however, did not alter Gsk-3beta or NFkappaB, resulted in lower beta-catenin expression, but did increase pCreb immunoreactivity. While it is possible that pCreb is a common link in the regulation of Bcl-2 following these two manipulations, the timing and distribution of pCreb labeling suggests that it is not the sole determinant of Bcl-2 upregulation following deafferentation. It is likely that the regulation of Bcl-2 gene expression by lithium and by deafferentation involves different molecular pathways.



beta-Site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is required for the penultimate cleavage of the amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) leading to the generation of amyloid-beta peptides that is central to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. In addition to its role in endoproteolysis of APP, BACE1 participates in the proteolytic processing of neuregulin 1 (NRG1) and influences the myelination of central and peripheral axons. Although NRG1 has been genetically linked to schizophrenia and NRG1(+/-) mice exhibit a number of schizophrenia-like behavioral traits, it is not known whether altered BACE1-dependent NRG1 signaling can cause similar behavioral abnormalities. To test this hypothesis, we analyze the behaviors considered to be rodent analogs of clinical features of schizophrenia in BACE1(-/-) mice with impaired processing of NRG1. We demonstrate that BACE1(-/-) mice exhibit deficits in prepulse inhibition, novelty-induced hyperactivity, hypersensitivity to a glutamatergic psychostimulant (MK-801), cognitive impairments, and deficits in social recognition. Importantly, some of these manifestations were responsive to treatment with clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic drug. Moreover, although the total amount of ErbB4, a receptor for NRG1 was not changed, binding of ErbB4 with postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95) was significantly reduced in the brains of BACE1(-/-) mice. Consistent with the role of ErbB4 in spine morphology and synaptic function, BACE1(-/-) mice displayed reduced spine density in hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Collectively, our findings suggest that alterations in BACE1-dependent NRG1/ErbB4 signaling may participate in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and related psychiatric disorders.
The neuropeptide galanin R1 receptor (GalR1) was tagged at its C terminus with EGFP (GalR1-EGFP) to study receptor localization and trafficking. In PC12 and HEK293 cells, functional GalR1-EGFP was expressed on the plasma membrane and internalized into cytoplasmic vesicles after galanin stimulation. The internalization was blocked by 0.4 M sucrose and by silencing of clathrin with siRNA methodology. Internalized GalR1-EGFP and LysoTracker, a lysosomal marker, overlapped in intracellular vesicles after prolonged galanin stimulation. This colocalization was strongly reduced after site-directed mutagenesis of the motif YXX on the C terminus of GalR1 (where  is a bulky hydrophobic residue and X any amino acid). Taken together, these data suggest that GalR1 is internalized via the clathrin-dependent, endocytic pathway and then, to a large extent, delivered to lysosomes for degradation through the lysosome-targeting signal YXX.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that can act to repress target mRNAs by suppressing translation and/or reducing mRNA stability. Although it is clear that miRNAs and Dicer, an RNase III enzyme that is central to the production of mature miRNAs, have a role in the early development of neurons, their roles in the postmitotic neuron in vivo are largely unknown. To determine the roles of Dicer in neurons, we ablated Dicer in dopaminoceptive neurons. Mice that have lost Dicer in these cells display a range of phenotypes including ataxia, front and hind limb clasping, reduced brain size, and smaller neurons. Surprisingly, dopaminoceptive neurons without Dicer survive over the life of the animal. The lack of profound cell death contrasts with other mouse models in which Dicer has been ablated. These studies highlight the complicated nature of Dicer ablation in the brain and provide a useful mouse model for studying dopaminoceptive neuron function.
How the billions of synapses in the adult mammalian brain are precisely specified remains one of the fundamental questions of neuroscience. Although a genetic program is likely to encode the basic neural blueprint, much evidence suggests that experience-driven activity through NMDA receptors wires up neuronal circuits by inducing a process similar to long-term potentiation. To test this notion directly, we eliminated NMDA receptors before and during synaptogenesis in single cells in vitro and in vivo. Although the prevailing model would predict that NMDA receptor deletion should strongly inhibit the maturation of excitatory circuits, we find that genetic ablation of NMDA receptor function profoundly increases the number of functional synapses between neurons. Conversely, reintroduction of NMDA receptors into NR1-deficient neurons reduces the number of functional inputs, a process requiring network activity and NMDA receptor function. Although NMDA receptor deletion increases the strength of unitary connections, it does not alter neuronal morphology, suggesting that basal NMDA receptor activation blocks the recruitment of AMPA receptors to silent synapses. Based on these results we suggest a new model for the maturation of excitatory synapses in which ongoing activation of NMDA receptors prevents premature synaptic maturation by ensuring that only punctuated bursts of activity lead to the induction of a functional synapse for the activity-dependent wiring of neural circuitry.
The calyx of Held is probably the largest synaptic terminal in the brain, forming a unique one-to-one connection in the auditory ventral brainstem. During early development, calyces have many collaterals, whose function is unknown. Using electrophysiological recordings and fast-calcium imaging in brain slices, we demonstrate that these collaterals are involved in synaptic transmission. We show evidence that the collaterals are pruned and that the pruning already begins 1 week before the onset of hearing. Using two-photon microscopy to image the calyx of Held in neonate rats, we report evidence that both axons and nascent calyces are structurally dynamic, showing the formation, elimination, extension, or retraction of up to 65% of their collaterals within 1 hour. The observed dynamic behavior of axons may add flexibility in the choice of postsynaptic partners and thereby contribute to ensuring that each principal cell eventually is contacted by a single calyx of Held.
Glucocorticoids are secreted in discrete pulses resulting in an ultradian rhythm in all species that have been studied. In the rat there is an approximately hourly rhythm of corticosterone secretion, which appears to be regulated by alternating activation and inhibition of the HPA axis. At the level of signal transduction, the response to these pulses of corticosterone is determined by its dynamic interaction with the two transcription factors--the glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors. While the mineralocorticoid receptor remains activated throughout the ultradian cycle, the glucocorticoid receptor shows a phasic response to each individual pulse of corticosterone. This phasic response is regulated by an intranuclear proteasome-dependent rapid downregulation of the activated glucocorticoid receptor.
Substantial evidence indicates that brain neurons containing and secreting noradrenaline and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) are activated during stress, and that physiological and behavioural responses observed during stress can be induced by exogenous administration of CRF and adrenoceptor agonists. This review focusses on the evidence for the involvement of these two factors in stress-related responses, and the inter-relationships between them. The possible abnormalities of these two systems in depressive illness are also discussed.
The nonapeptide vasopressin acts both as a hormone and as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator. As a hormone, its target organs include kidney, blood vessels, liver, platelets and anterior pituitary. As a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator, vasopressin plays a role in autonomic functions, such as cardiovascular regulation and temperature regulation and is involved in complex behavioral and cognitive functions, such as sexual behavior, pair-bond formation and social recognition. At the neuronal level, vasopressin acts by enhancing membrane excitability and by modulating synaptic transmission. The present review will focus on the electrophysiological effects of vasopressin at the cellular level. A large proportion of the experiments summarized here have been performed in in vitro systems, especially in brain and spinal cord slices of the rat. Vasopressin exerts a powerful excitatory action on motoneurons of young rats and mice. It acts by generating a cationic inward current and/or by reducing a potassium conductance. In addition, vasopressin enhances the inhibitory synaptic input to motoneurons. By virtue of these actions, vasopressin may regulate the functioning of neuronal networks involved in motor control. In the amygdala, vasopressin can directly excite a subpopulation of neurons, whereas oxytocin, a related neuropeptide, can indirectly inhibit these same neurons. In the lateral septum, vasopressin exerts a similar dual action: it excites directly a neuronal subpopulation, but causes indirect inhibition of virtually all lateral septal neurons. The actions of vasopressin in the amygdala and lateral septum may represent at least part of the neuronal substrate by which vasopressin influences fear and anxiety-related behavior and social recognition, respectively. Central vasopressin can modulate cardiovascular parameters by causing excitation of spinal sympathetic preganglionic neurons, by increasing the inhibitory input to cardiac parasympathetic neurons in the nucleus ambiguus, by depressing the excitatory input to parabrachial neurons, or by inhibiting glutamate release at solitary tract axon terminals. By acting in or near the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus, vasopressin can influence magnocellular neuron activity, suggesting that the peptide may exert some control on its own release at neurohypophyseal axon terminals. The central actions of vasopressin are mainly mediated by receptors of the V(1A) type, although recent studies have also reported the presence of vasopressin V(1B) receptors in the brain. Major unsolved problems are: (i) what is the transduction pathway activated following stimulation of central vasopressin V(1A) receptors? (ii) What is the precise nature of the cation channels and/or potassium channels operated by vasopressin? (iii) Does vasopressin, by virtue of its second messenger(s), interfere with other neurotransmitter/neuromodulator systems? In recent years, information concerning the mechanism of action of vasopressin at the neuronal level and its possible role and function at the whole-animal level has been accumulating. Translation of peptide actions at the cellular level into autonomic, behavioral and cognitive effects requires an intermediate level of integration, i.e. the level of neuronal circuitry. Here, detailed information is lacking. Further progress will probably require the introduction of new techniques, such as targeted in vivo whole-cell recording, large-scale recordings from neuronal ensembles or in vivo imaging in small animals.
In a screen to identify genes involved in synaptic function, we isolated mutations in Drosophila melanogaster straightjacket (stj), an alpha(2)delta subunit of the voltage-gated calcium channel. stj mutant photoreceptors develop normal synaptic connections but display reduced &quot;on-off&quot; transients in electroretinogram recordings, indicating a failure to evoke postsynaptic responses and, thus, a defect in neurotransmission. stj is expressed in neurons but excluded from glia. Mutants exhibit endogenous seizure-like activity, indicating altered neuronal excitability. However, at the synaptic level, stj larval neuromuscular junctions exhibit approximately fourfold reduction in synaptic release compared with controls stemming from a reduced release probability at these synapses. These defects likely stem from destabilization of Cacophony (Cac), the primary presynaptic alpha(1) subunit in D. melanogaster. Interestingly, neuronal overexpression of cac partially rescues the viability and physiological defects in stj mutants, indicating a role for the alpha(2)delta Ca(2+) channel subunit in mediating the proper localization of an alpha(1) subunit at synapses.
The length and hydrophobicity of the transmembrane domain (TMD) play an important role in the sorting of membrane proteins within the secretory pathway; however, the relative contributions of protein-protein and protein-lipid interactions to this phenomenon are currently not understood. To investigate the mechanism of TMD-dependent sorting, we used the following two C tail-anchored fluorescent proteins (FPs), which differ only in TMD length: FP-17, which is anchored to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane by 17 uncharged residues, and FP-22, which is driven to the plasma membrane by its 22-residue-long TMD. Before export of FP-22, the two constructs, although freely diffusible, were seen to distribute differently between ER tubules and sheets. Analyses in temperature-blocked cells revealed that FP-17 is excluded from ER exit sites, whereas FP-22 is recruited to them, although it remains freely exchangeable with the surrounding reticulum. Thus, physicochemical features of the TMD influence sorting of membrane proteins both within the ER and at the ER-Golgi boundary by simple receptor-independent mechanisms based on partitioning.
We describe a technique for epidural medication delivery with angiographic catheters and guidewires inserted via caudal puncture and advanced cephalad under fluoroscopic guidance in the treatment of painful spinal diseases. Methods: From November 2005 to September 2006 a total of 18 consecutive patients underwent adhesiolysis by an angiographic 5 French hockey-stick tip catheter and a coaxial 0.038&quot; steerable guidewire inserted at the sacral hiatus and advanced cephalad under fluoroscopic guidance up to the site of adhesion. We obtained pain relief for more than three months in 61% of patients. There were no periprocedural/postprocedural complications. Our system of accessing the epidural space provides a safe means of delivering epidural medication, performing mechanical adhesiolysis and may be useful in the treatment of selected patients with painful spinal diseases.
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT) is a clinically benign stable lesion, most frequently located in the temporal and frontal lobes, often responsible for epilepsy in young adults. We describe an unusual case of DNT in the brainstem of a 45-year-old woman. Brain MRI showed a multicystic-like lesion localized in the left inferior pons, involving the ipsilateral cerebellar peduncle and partially dislocating the fourth ventricle. The specific pattern of MRI and CT appearance of DNT and its benign course (our patient is clinically stable with unchanged MRI images at two year follow-up) may help differentiate this tumor from other lesions, i.e. gangliogliomas and glioneural malformations.
Serotonin (5-HT) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of several psychiatric disorders including major depressive disorder (MDD) and schizophrenia (SCZ). The serotonin transporter (5-HTT) is a major regulator of 5-HT function. 5-HTT gene polymorphic variants have been associated with both MDD and SCZ. A case-control design was used for candidate gene-disease association in 194 MDD patients, 155 schizophrenic psychosis patients, and 246 healthy controls, all North European Caucasians. Four polymorphisms were analyzed in terms of genotype, allele, and haplotype-based associations. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis was also carried out. Bonferroni correction was used for multiple testing. Haplotype-based analyses showed significant associations between 5-HTT and SCZ but not MDD. No single locus associations were observed. In agreement with published meta-analysis our results indicate that 5-HTT associates with SCZ but not with MDD. It appears that risk for SCZ maps within a specific 5-HTT haplotype block.
Amblyopia results in a loss of visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and position acuity. However, the nature of the neural losses is not yet fully understood. Here we report the results of experiments using noise to try to better understand the losses in amblyopia. Specifically, in one experiment we compared the performance of normal, amblyopic, and ideal observers for detecting a localized signal (a discrete frequency pattern or DFP) in fixed contrast white noise. In a second experiment, we used visibility-scaled noise and varied both the visibility of the noise (from 2 to 20 times the noise detection threshold) and the spatial frequency of the signal. Our results show a loss of efficiency for detection of known signals in noise that increases with the spatial frequency of the signal in observers with amblyopia. To determine whether the loss of efficiency was a consequence of a mismatched template, we derived classification images. We found that although the amblyopic observers' template was shifted to lower spatial frequencies, the shift was insufficient to account for their threshold elevation. Reduced efficiency in the amblyopic visual system may reflect a high level of internal noise, a poorly matched position template, or both. To analyze the type of internal noise we used an &quot;N-pass&quot; technique, in which observers performed the identical experiment N times (where N = 3 or 4). The amount of disagreement between the repeated trials enables us to parse the internal noise into random noise and consistent noise beyond that due to the poorly matched template. Our results show that the amblyopes' reduced efficiency for detecting signals in noise is explained in part by reduced template efficiency but to a greater extent by increased random internal noise. This loss is more or less independent of external noise contrast over a log unit range of external noise.
Homeostatic plasticity is a powerful cellular mechanism through which neurons adjust intracellular and intercellular resources to stabilize their functional output through the ever-changing environment. Here, we report a novel form of homeostatic plasticity that nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons use to regain their functionally active state once it is lost. In vivo, NAc neurons periodically alternate between a functionally active upstate and a functionally quiescent downstate. The upstate of NAc neurons is immediately lost following severe environmental changes, such as deep anesthesia and truncation of excitatory synaptic inputs. Using short-term slice cultures, our current study demonstrates that NAc neurons initially lose but gradually recover their upstate-downstate cycling after shifting to the in vitro condition. Furthermore, we show that this homeostatic recovery of the upstate is mediated by increased synchronization of presynaptic activity. Given that being in the upstate is required for in vivo NAc neurons to fire action potentials, the homeostatic recovery of upstate may underlie an important cellular mechanism for NAc neurons to maintain their functional output against severe environmental fluctuations.
Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) form specialized networks in the gastrointestinal tract that coordinate cellular communications between nerves and smooth muscle cells. However, little is known about ICC in the gut mucosa or submucosa. Here, we report for the first time that Kit-immunoreactive ICC are associated with the submucosal (Meissner's) plexus of the Guinea-pig stomach. In longitudinal sections along the greater curvature of the gastric corpus, short spindle-shaped ICC of the submucosal plexus (ICC-SP) were located around the PGP9.5-immunoreactive nerve elements in the submucosa. Observations of whole-mount preparations clearly demonstrated Kit-immunoreactive bipolar or multipolar cells with long cytoplasmic processes about 100 microm in length. Such cells had typical characteristics of ICC, confirming that they were not mast cells, which are also Kit-immunoreactive residents of the submucosal connective tissue space. Although some ICC-SP surrounded parts of the submucosal plexus, they did not appear to form wide extensions of the cellular network, suggesting that they acted locally. The demonstration of ICC-SP in the submucosal connective tissue space suggests that they may contribute to the regulation of secretion, absorption and transportation of fluids in the mucosa.
The potential of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in brain imaging in terms of the in vivo mapping of neuroanatomy is generally accepted. Mostly, analyses of deep brain structures were based on complex methodical backgrounds. In the present study, the delineation of groups of thalamic nuclei with similar projection characteristics was investigated in healthy human subjects using a novel differentiated colour encoding approach of DTI data without the use of statistical calculations. With the application of this directional colour encoding of the longest eigenvector of every voxel-specific tensor, at least three functional groups in the thalamus with different projection directions could be differentiated. The method displayed, furthermore, a high symmetry and stability in the analysis of the individual subjects. In summary, substantial neuroanatomical information can be gained for deep subcortical gray matter structures such as the thalamus with an improved detection and directional differentiation of voxel-specific tensors.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is well known to be released from injured or inflamed tissues, and to excite/sensitize nociceptors in response to heat and mechanical stimulation. To determine whether muscle releases ATP when it is compressed, we measured ATP release from the extensor digitorum longus muscle (EDL). In addition, we investigated whether there is any difference in ATP release from the EDL of rats 2 days after lengthening contraction (LC), since the condition of the muscle is different, i.e., mechanically hyperalgesic and swollen. The EDL was put in a small chamber and superfused with Krebs-Henseleit solution equilibrated with a gas mixture of 95% oxygen and 5% carbon dioxide. The muscle was quantitatively stimulated with a servo-controlled mechanical stimulator. Reproducibility of ATP release was examined with stimulation using a 20 g force. Stimulus intensity-dependency of ATP release was also examined with 5 time compression with intensities of 5, 10, 20 and 40 g force. Bioluminescent determination by the luciferin-luciferase method was used to quantify ATP in the sample. The ATP release was decreased by repetitive mechanical stimulation of the EDL with 30 min intervals, and it was stimulus intensity (5-40 g force)-dependent. The amount of ATP released from the muscle preparations was not different between the non-treated control and the LC group. These results provide clear evidence that ATP is released from rat skeletal muscle by compression.
We were interested in gaining insight into the functional properties of frontal networks based upon their anatomical inputs. We took a neuroinformatics approach, carrying out maximum likelihood hierarchical cluster analysis on 25 frontal cortical areas based upon their anatomical connections, with 68 input areas representing exterosensory, chemosensory, motor, limbic, and other frontal inputs. The analysis revealed a set of statistically robust clusters. We used these clusters to divide the frontal areas into 5 groups, including ventral-lateral, ventral-medial, dorsal-medial, dorsal-lateral, and caudal-orbital groups. Each of these groups was defined by a unique set of inputs. This organization provides insight into the differential roles of each group of areas and suggests a gradient by which orbital and ventral-medial areas may be responsible for decision-making processes based on emotion and primary reinforcers, and lateral frontal areas are more involved in integrating affective and rational information into a common framework.
Whereas gamma-band neuronal oscillations clearly appear integral to visual attention, the role of lower-frequency oscillations is still being debated. Mounting evidence indicates that a key functional property of these oscillations is the rhythmic shifting of excitability in local neuronal ensembles. Here, we show that when attended stimuli are in a rhythmic stream, delta-band oscillations in the primary visual cortex entrain to the rhythm of the stream, resulting in increased response gain for task-relevant events and decreased reaction times. Because of hierarchical cross-frequency coupling, delta phase also determines momentary power in higher-frequency activity. These instrumental functions of low-frequency oscillations support a conceptual framework that integrates numerous earlier findings.
These experiments investigated the role of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptors of the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) in modulating the retention of inhibitory avoidance (IA). In Experiment 1, male Sprague Dawley rats implanted with bilateral cannulae in the BLA received microinfusions of a selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan 20 min either before or immediately after training. Retention was tested 48 h later. Idazoxan induced a dose-dependent enhancement of retention performance and was more effective when administered post-training. In Experiment 2, animals received pre- or post-training intra-BLA infusions of a selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist UK 14,304. The agonist induced a dose-dependent impairment of retention performance and, as with the antagonist treatments, post-training infusions were more effective. These results provide additional evidence that consolidation of inhibitory avoidance memory depends critically on prolonged activation of the noradrenergic system in the BLA and indicate that this modulatory influence is mediated, in part, by pre-synaptic alpha(2)-adrenoceptors.


The hippocampus is thought to be critical for encoding contextually bound memories and setting the context for ongoing behavior. However, the mechanisms by which the hippocampal-cortical system controls behavior are poorly understood. We propose a computational model in which the hippocampus exerts contextual control over motivated behavior by gating prefrontal cortex inputs to the nucleus accumbens. The model integrates the episodic memory functions of the hippocampus, the prefrontal role in representing the motivational stimuli and cognitive control, and the role of striatal regions in conditioned learning within a single theoretical framework. Simulation results are consistent with the hypothesis that hippocampal-prefrontal interactions may act as the neural substrate that allows contextual cues to override conditioned responses at the level of the nucleus accumbens. Prefrontal and hippocampal input overrides the predominant CS-US association if the context is inconsistent, and promotes flexible selection of previously learned associations and behaviors. Simulated transection of the fornix, effectively eliminating hippocampal and prefrontal influence over the nucleus accumbens, abolishes normal contextual modulation of behavior. The model is consistent with a wide range of empirical data.
The development of connectivity among brain networks (e.g., thalamocortical, cortico-thalamic, cortico-cortical) proceeds via a combination of axon and dendrite growth followed by a later process of synaptic pruning [Purves, D., Lichtman, J.W., 1980. Elimination of synapses in the developing nervous system. Science, 210, 153-157; Oppenheim, R.W., 1991. Cell death during development of the nervous system. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 14(1), 453-501.; Oppenheim, R., Qin-Wei Y., Prevette D., Yan Q., 1992. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor rescues developing avian motoneurons from cell death. Nature, 360, 755-757]. Sparse synaptic distribution (i.e., the low probability (&lt;0.1) of contact among neurons; [Braitenberg, V., Schz, A., 1998. Cortex: Statistics and geometry of neuronal connectivity: Springer Berlin.] can conform to any of a range of connectivity patterns with different distributional characteristics; and different distribution patterns can yield networks with very different functional properties. We rigorously investigate a range of different connectivity characteristics, and show that different synaptic distributions can substantially affect the functional capabilities of the resulting networks. In particular, we provide formal measures of information loss in transmission from one set of neurons to another as a function of synaptic distribution, and show a set of empirical cases with different information-theoretic utility. We characterize the trade-offs among utility and costs, and their dependence on different classes of developmental strategies by which axons from one cell group are &quot;assigned&quot; to synapses on dendrites from a target cell group. It is shown that hypergeometric distributions minimize a range of measured costs, compared to competing synaptic distributions. It is also found that the divergent performance among differently organized brain circuits expands with brain size, rendering the effects increasingly consequential for big brains. In summary, we propose that the characteristics of hypergeometric connectivity provide a coherent explanatory hypothesis of a range of developmental and anatomical data.
Within cognitive neuroscience, computational models are designed to provide insights into the organization of behavior while adhering to neural principles. These models should provide sufficient specificity to generate novel predictions while maintaining the generality needed to capture behavior across tasks and/or time scales. This paper presents one such model, the dynamic field theory (DFT) of spatial cognition, showing new simulations that provide a demonstration proof that the theory generalizes across developmental changes in performance in four tasks-the Piagetian A-not-B task, a sandbox version of the A-not-B task, a canonical spatial recall task, and a position discrimination task. Model simulations demonstrate that the DFT can accomplish both specificity-generating novel, testable predictions-and generality-spanning multiple tasks across development with a relatively simple developmental hypothesis. Critically, the DFT achieves generality across tasks and time scales with no modification to its basic structure and with a strong commitment to neural principles. The only change necessary to capture development in the model was an increase in the precision of the tuning of receptive fields as well as an increase in the precision of local excitatory interactions among neurons in the model. These small quantitative changes were sufficient to move the model through a set of quantitative and qualitative behavioral changes that span the age range from 8 months to 6 years and into adulthood. We conclude by considering how the DFT is positioned in the literature, the challenges on the horizon for our framework, and how a dynamic field approach can yield new insights into development from a computational cognitive neuroscience perspective.
In previous simulations of hippocampus-dependent and prefrontal cortex-dependent tasks, we demonstrated the use of one-shot short-term buffering with time compression that may be achieved through persistent spiking activity during theta rhythm. A biophysically plausible implementation of such a first-in first-out buffer of short sequences of spike patterns includes noise and differences between the parameter values of individual model pyramidal cells. We show that a specific set of parameters determines model buffer capacity and buffer function, and individual differences can have consequences similar to those of noise. The set of parameters includes the frequency of network theta rhythm and the strength of recurrent inhibition (affecting capacity), as well as the time constants of the characteristic after-depolarizing response and the phase of afferent input during theta rhythm (affecting buffer function). Given a sufficient number of pyramidal cells in layer II of entorhinal cortex, and in each self-selected category of pyramidal cells with similar model parameters, buffer function within a category is reliable with category-specific properties. Properties include buffering of spikes in the order of inputs or in the reversed order. Multiple property sets may enable parallel buffers with different capacities, which may underlie differences of place field sizes and may interact with grid cell firing in a separate population of layer II stellate cells in the entorhinal cortex.
There is considerable current interest in neural modeling of the attentional blink phenomenon. Two prominent models of this task are the Simultaneous Type Serial Token (ST(2)) model and the Locus Coeruleus-Norepinephrine (LC-NE) model. The former of these generates a broad spectrum of behavioral data, while the latter provides a neurophysiologically detailed account. This paper explores the relationship between these two approaches. Specifically, we consider the spectrum of empirical phenomena that the two models generate, particularly emphasizing the need to generate a reciprocal relationship between bottom-up trace strength and the blink bottleneck. Then we discuss the implications of using ST(2) token mechanisms in the LC-NE setting.

Is sound location represented in the auditory cortex of humans and monkeys? Human neuroimaging experiments have had only mixed success at demonstrating sound location sensitivity in primary auditory cortex. This is in apparent conflict with studies in monkeys and other animals, in which single-unit recording studies have found stronger evidence for spatial sensitivity. Does this apparent discrepancy reflect a difference between humans and animals, or does it reflect differences in the sensitivity of the methods used for assessing the representation of sound location? The sensitivity of imaging methods such as functional magnetic resonance imaging depends on the following two key aspects of the underlying neuronal population: (1) what kind of spatial sensitivity individual neurons exhibit and (2) whether neurons with similar response preferences are clustered within the brain. To address this question, we conducted a single-unit recording study in monkeys. We investigated the nature of spatial sensitivity in individual auditory cortical neurons to determine whether they have receptive fields (place code) or monotonic (rate code) sensitivity to sound azimuth. Second, we tested how strongly the population of neurons favors contralateral locations. We report here that the majority of neurons show predominantly monotonic azimuthal sensitivity, forming a rate code for sound azimuth, but that at the population level the degree of contralaterality is modest. This suggests that the weakness of the evidence for spatial sensitivity in human neuroimaging studies of auditory cortex may be attributable to limited lateralization at the population level, despite what may be considerable spatial sensitivity in individual neurons.
There is an increasing body of literature pointing to cytoskeletal proteins as spatial organizers and interactors of organelles. In this study, we identified protein 600 (p600) as a novel microtubule-associated protein (MAP) developmentally regulated in neurons. p600 exhibits the unique feature to interact with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Silencing of p600 by RNA interference (RNAi) destabilizes neuronal processes in young primary neurons undergoing neurite extension and containing scarce staining of the ER marker Bip. Furthermore, in utero electroporation of p600 RNAi alters neuronal migration, a process that depends on synergistic actions of microtubule dynamics and ER functions. p600-depleted migrating neurons display thin, crooked, and &quot;zigzag&quot; leading process with very few ER membranes. Thus, p600 constitutes the only known MAP to associate with the ER in neurons, and this interaction may impact on multiple cellular processes ranging from neuronal development to neuronal maturation and plasticity.
Understanding the organization of the cerebral cortex remains a central focus of neuroscience. Cortical maps have relied almost exclusively on the examination of postmortem tissue to construct structural, architectonic maps. These maps have invariably distinguished between areas with fewer discernable layers, which have a less complex overall pattern of lamination and lack an internal granular layer, and those with more complex laminar architecture. The former includes several agranular limbic areas, and the latter includes the homotypical and granular areas of association and sensory cortex. Here, we relate these traditional maps to developmental data from noninvasive neuroimaging. Changes in cortical thickness were determined in vivo from 764 neuroanatomic magnetic resonance images acquired longitudinally from 375 typically developing children and young adults. We find differing levels of complexity of cortical growth across the cerebrum, which align closely with established architectonic maps. Cortical regions with simple laminar architecture, including most limbic areas, predominantly show simpler growth trajectories. These areas have clearly identified homologues in all mammalian brains and thus likely evolved in early mammals. In contrast, polysensory and high-order association areas of cortex, the most complex areas in terms of their laminar architecture, also have the most complex developmental trajectories. Some of these areas are unique to, or dramatically expanded in primates, lending an evolutionary significance to the findings. Furthermore, by mapping a key characteristic of these development trajectories (the age of attaining peak cortical thickness) we document the dynamic, heterochronous maturation of the cerebral cortex through time lapse sequences (&quot;movies&quot;).



The characters, in little girl style, who more and more often appear in advertisements, glossy magazines, television programs and megastores, and who can be encountered in the streets of many cities, are not the product of an ephimerous fashion dictated by the logic of the market. They come from far away, disquieting and erotic, and have crossed all the cultures of the western world, fascinating and disconcerting the soul with their power of seduction. They are the nymphs of Greek mythology, and not even the gods were able to resist them, knowing very well that their bodies are a place of knowledge that could lead to insanity. The paradox of the nymph is that possessing her means being possessed. After an overview of the myth of possession by nymphs, the author discusses certain illustrious figures of western culture of the 19th and 20th century possessed by a nymph: Aby Warburg, Martin Heidegger, Carl Gustav Jung, Henrik Ibsen and Emil Cioran. In all of them the possession by a nymph unfolded in keeping with the myth: intellectual fervor was common to all, insanity in Warburg, rapacious egotism in Heidegger and Jung, and a metamorphosis of Weltanshaung in Ibsen and Cioran. Nonetheless, they all, in their encounter with a nymph, laid bare their multifaceted identities, the muddy depths and the &quot;heart of darkness&quot; of their souls.
Unplanned migration of a deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrode after accurate placement at the intended target can result in a poor surgical outcome and added cost to the procedure. There are various fixation methods described in the literature. The authors describe the use of a modified burr-hole cover which serves as a simple and cost-effective method of fixation of the DBS lead with excellent results.


Lewy bodies, the histologic hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD), are detected in the brains of about 10% of clinically normal people over the age of 60 years. When Lewy bodies are found in normal individuals, the process is sometimes referred to as incidental Lewy body disease (iLBD). The distribution of Lewy bodies in iLBD is similar to the distribution in PD, but neuronal populations vulnerable to Lewy bodies do not show significant neuronal loss in iLBD. It remains unknown if Lewy bodies in this setting represent pre-symptomatic PD or an age-related change unrelated to PD. To address this question we identified cases of iLBD and used a marker for dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), to determine if there were changes similar to those found in PD. TH immunoreactivity in the striatum and the epicardial nerve fibers was decreased in iLBD compared to normal controls, but not to the same extent as in PD. The findings suggest that iLBD is preclinical PD and that the lack of symptoms is due to subthreshold pathology.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) comprises extracellular plaques and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). In Parkinson's disease (PD), alpha-synuclein forms intraneuronal Lewy bodies (LBs), and cortical LBs are thought to play a major role in cognitive decline designated as PD with dementia. As there is increasing evidence that Abeta may also promote alpha-synuclein fibrillization, we assessed the relationship between LB pathology and Abeta deposition in 40 cases of PD and 20 age-matched controls. In five cortical areas, we established the severity of Abeta plaque load using an approach similar to that recommended by CERAD in AD. LB densities were determined using a morphometric approach. CAA was graded using previously described scales. The APOE genotype was established in 38 PD and 19 control cases. We have found that the overall Abeta plaque burden and, in particular, the diffuse plaque load shows a statistically significant 'large' correlation with the overall cortical LB burden. The strength of this correlation further increases in PD cases (about 50% of the cases) with moderate to high Abeta plaque load. The APOE epsilon4 allele is over-represented in this subgroup. Our data indicate a strong association between pathologically identifiable Abeta plaque burden and alpha-synuclein load in cerebral cortex and provide indirect evidence that Abeta pathology is likely to be an important factor contributing to cognitive decline in a subgroup of PD patients.

In this study, an assessment was made of the global assumption that working adults with a mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss experience more negative emotional reactions and socio-situational limitations than subjects with no hearing problems and that a deterioration of health-related quality of life on these specific domains would occur. Comparisons between 73 hearing-impaired subjects and 96 controls, well-matched for socio-demographic variables, were performed using the HHIA, MOS 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and SFQ questionnaires scores and revealed that the former experience a higher level of perceived hearing handicap and a deterioration of health-related quality of life while investigating emotional and socio-situational domains than the latter (p &lt; 0.005). While investigating the psychological distress dimension of the hearing-impaired subjects by means of the Symptom Check List (SCL-90-R), it emerged that they are more prone to depression, anxiety, interpersonal sensitivity, and hostility than subjects with no hearing problems (p &lt; 0.05). It is argued that the sensory impairment, with its associated disability, may discourage hearing-impaired individuals from exposing themselves to socially challenging situations, producing isolation that leads to depression, irritability, feelings of inferiority. The same psychological symptoms, on the other hand, can compound and worsen the picture by influencing social behaviour of the affected persons. Further prospective studies are needed to address this issue. Nevertheless, it is concluded that Audiology Services, despite the time and costs involved, should improve their diagnostic ability by exploring more areas of hearing-impaired subjects concerns in order not to overlook their potentially reduced psychosocial well-being.
The effect of treatment on relapses of Trypanosoma brucei (T. b.) brucei infections in mice in relation to passage of the parasites across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) as visualized by immunohistochemistry was studied. Three daily intraperitoneal injections of 20mg/kg suramin starting at 15 days post-infection (p.i.), when trypanosomes had begun to traverse the BBB, were curative, but not when starting at 21 days p.i. when parasite brain invasion was more pronounced. Relapses occurred in all mice after one or two daily injections of suramin starting at 15 days p.i., but they were delayed when treatment was supplemented with minocycline, which impedes penetration of T. b. brucei into the brain. This study supports the notion that suramin may be effective even when minor parasite neuroinvasion has appeared in African trypanosomiasis and it shows that minocyline can affect relapses of the disease.
Mario Beauregard, PhD, a cognitive neuroscientist at the University of Montreal in Canada, has been studying the neuroscience of consciousness and mystical experience for many years, including a study investigating the brain activity of Carmelite nuns, for which he has received considerable media attention. He conducted postdoctoral research at the University of Texas and the Montreal Neurological Institute at McGill University. He was selected by the World Media Net, a consortium of major daily newspapers in Europe and North America created at the turn of the new millenium as one of &quot;100 Pioneers of the 21st Century.&quot; He is co-author with Denyse O'Leary of the book The Spiritual Brain: A Neuroscientist's Case for the Existence of the Soul (HarperOne, 2007). Dr Beauregard was recently interviewed by Sheldon Lewis, editor in chief of Advances.

Innate and adaptive immunity are the major defence mechanisms of higher organisms against inherent and environmental threats. Innate immunity is present already in unicellular organisms but evolution has added novel adaptive immune mechanisms to the defence armament. Interestingly, during aging, adaptive immunity significantly declines, a phenomenon called immunosenescence, whereas innate immunity seems to be activated which induces a characteristic pro-inflammatory profile. This process is called inflamm-aging. The recognition and signaling mechanisms involved in innate immunity have been conserved during evolution. The master regulator of the innate immunity is the NF-kB system, an ancient signaling pathway found in both insects and vertebrates. The NF-kB system is in the nodal point linking together the pathogenic assault signals and cellular danger signals and then organizing the cellular resistance. Recent studies have revealed that SIRT1 (Sir2 homolog) and FoxO (DAF-16), the key regulators of aging in budding yeast and Caenorhabditis elegans models, regulate the efficiency of NF-kB signaling and the level of inflammatory responses. We will review the role of innate immunity signaling in the aging process and examine the function of NF-kB system in the organization of defence mechanisms and in addition, its interactions with the protein products of several gerontogenes. Our conclusion is that NF-kB signaling seems to be the culprit of inflamm-aging, since this signaling system integrates the intracellular regulation of immune responses in both aging and age-related diseases.
In the last few years, highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has resulted in a remarkable decrease in HIV-related morbidity and mortality. This &quot;new deal&quot; encouraged clinical research in investigating patients' manifest behaviours and their beliefs regarding their health status, which likely influence not only their treatment-linked behaviours but also their quality of life. Locus of control has been shown to be a construct that can predict and explain health-related behaviours. The Multidimensional Health Locus of Control Form C (MHLC-C) is a condition-specific locus of control scale that can be easily adapted for use with any medical or health-related condition. With the aim to enhance the knowledge about the HIV+ patients' point of view of their complex health condition, this study preliminarily investigated the psychometrics properties of the MHLC-C Italian version and its generalizability across samples defined both by being adherent or not and by gender. Two more samples of chronic patients (Cardiac Surgery and Cancer) were enrolled to better characterize the HIV+ patient's MHLC-C profile. The results showed the validity, reliability and generalizability of the 4-factor structure of MHLC-C. More interestingly, HIV+ subjects revealed a peculiar pattern of beliefs regarding their health condition that clinicians should take into account when managing patients' complex bio-psychosocial condition.


The genetic form of Alzheimer disease (FAD) accounts for about 5% of total Alzheimer disease (AD) cases, and the discovery of FAD-linked genes has shed new light on AD pathogenic mechanism. The presenilins genes (PSEN-1 and PSEN-2) carry the large majority of FAD-linked mutations. Here, we report an Italian kindred with FAD and PSEN-1 double mutation E318G+G394V that clearly cosegregates with the pathology. The E318G mutation has not an assessed pathogenic function, but some data have highlighted a role as a risk factor for AD in a predisposed familiar background. The G394V mutation was still described in association to an AD case with reported (but not demonstrated) familiar cosegregation. In an attempt to better characterize the biochemical effect of this double mutation, we assessed A beta(1-40) and A beta(1-42) concentrations in conditioned media from primary skin fibroblasts obtained from AD-affected and healthy family members. We did not find any modification of the A beta(1-42)/A beta(1-40) ratio, suggesting that this double mutation might be involved in early-onset AD etiopathogenesis by affecting a PSEN-1 function other than gamma-secretase activity.

We explore a new distinction between the future, prospective memory system being investigated in current neuroscience and the past, retrospective memory system, which was the original theoretical foundation of therapeutic hypnosis, classical psychoanalysis, and psychotherapy. We then generalize a current evolutionary theory of sleep and dreaming, which focuses on the future, prospective memory system, to conceptualize a new evolutionary perspective on therapeutic hypnosis and brief psychotherapy. The implication of current neuroscience research is that activity-dependent gene expression and brain plasticity are the psychobiological basis of adaptive behavior, consciousness, and creativity in everyday life as well as psychotherapy. We summarize a case illustrating how this evolutionary perspective can be used to quickly resolve problems with past obstructive procrastination in school to facilitate current and future academic success.


Nicotine sustains addictive tobacco use, which in turn causes much premature disability and death. The essence of drug addiction is loss of control of drug use. Molecular biology studies suggest that the alpha(4)beta(2) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtype is the main receptor mediating nicotine dependence. Nicotine acts on these brain nicotinic cholinergic receptors to facilitate neurotransmitter release (dopamine and others), producing pleasure, stimulation, and mood modulation. Neuroadaptation develops with repeated exposure to nicotine, resulting in tolerance to many of the effects of nicotine. When a smoker stops smoking, a nicotine withdrawal syndrome ensues, characterized by irritability, anxiety, increased eating, dysphoria, and hedonic dysregulation, among other symptoms. Smoking is also reinforced by conditioning, such that specific stimuli that are psychologically associated with smoking become cues for an urge to smoke. These include the taste and smell of tobacco, as well as particular moods, situations, and environmental cues. Pharmacotherapies to aid smoking cessation should ideally reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms and block the reinforcing effects of nicotine obtained from smoking without causing excessive adverse effects. Further, given the important role of sensory effects of smoking and psychoactive effects of nicotine, counseling and behavioral therapies are important adjuncts to and substantially augment the benefits of pharmacotherapy.
This study examined the protective role of self-esteem, social involvement, and secure attachment among homeless youths. These protective factors were examined as they ameliorate risks among 208 homeless youths surveyed in New York City and Toronto. Both mental and physical health indicators were employed in this study, including loneliness, feeling trapped, suicidal ideation, subjective health status, and substance use. Self-esteem emerged as a key protective factor, predicting levels of loneliness, feeling trapped, and suicide ideation, and buffering against the deleterious effect of fearful attachment on loneliness. Findings highlight the role of the self-concept in risk and resilience among homeless youth.
Acute pancreatitis (AP) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality; however, there is no specific treatment for this disease. A novel salivary tripeptide analog, feG, reduces inflammation in several different animal models of inflammation. The aims of this study were to determine whether feG reduced the severity of AP and modifies the expression of pancreatic ICAM-1 mRNA during AP in a mouse model. AP was induced in mice by hourly (x12) intraperitoneal injections of caerulein. A single dose of feG (100 microg/kg) was coadministered with caerulein either at time 0 h (prophylactic) or 3 h after AP induction (therapeutic). Plasma amylase and pancreatic MPO activities and pancreatic ICAM-1 mRNA expression (by RT-PCR) were measured. Pancreatic sections were histologically assessed for abnormal acinar cells and interstitial space. AP induction produced a sevenfold increase in plasma amylase, a tenfold increase in pancreatic MPO activity, and a threefold increase in interstitial space, and 90% of the acinar cells were abnormal. Prophylactic treatment with feG reduced the AP-induced plasma amylase activity by 45%, pancreatic MPO by 80%, the proportion of abnormal acinar cells by 30%, and interstitial space by 40%. Therapeutic treatment with feG significantly reduced the AP-induced abnormal acinar cells by 10% and the interstitial space by 20%. Pancreatic ICAM-1 mRNA expression was upregulated in AP and was reduced by 50% with prophylactic and therapeutic treatment with feG. We conclude that feG ameliorates experimental AP acting at least in part by modulating ICAM-1 expression in the pancreas.
Muscle fatigue is associated with a number of clinical diseases, including chronic pain conditions. Decreases in extracellular pH activates acid-sensing ion channel 3 (ASIC3), depolarizes muscle, protects against fatigue, and produces pain. We examined whether ASIC3-/- mice were more fatigable than ASIC3+/+ mice in a task-dependent manner. We developed two exercise protocols to measure exercise-induced muscle fatigue: (fatigue task 1, three 1-h runs; fatigue task 2, three 30-min runs). In fatigue task 1, male ASIC3+/+ mice muscle showed less fatigue than male ASIC3-/- mice and female ASIC3+/+ mice. No differences in fatigue were observed in fatigue task 2. We then tested whether the development of muscle fatigue was dependent on sex and modulated by testosterone. Female ASIC3+/+ mice that were ovariectomized and administered testosterone developed less muscle fatigue than female ASIC3+/+ mice and behaved similarly to male ASIC3+/+ mice. However, testosterone was unable to rescue the muscle fatigue responses in ovariectomized ASIC3-/- mice. Plasma levels of testosterone from male ASIC3-/- mice were significantly lower than in male ASIC3+/+ mice and were similar to female ASIC3+/+ mice. Muscle fiber types, measured by counting ATPase-stained whole muscle sections, were similar in calf muscles from male and female ASIC3+/+ mice. These data suggest that both ASIC3 and testosterone are necessary to protect against muscle fatigue in a task-dependent manner. Also, differences in expression of ASIC3 and the development of exercise-induced fatigue could explain the female predominance in clinical syndromes of pain that include muscle fatigue.
PGE2 produced in the periphery triggers the early phase of the febrile response to infection and may contribute to later phases. It can be hypothesized that peripherally synthesized PGE2 transmits febrigenic signals to the brain via vagal afferent nerves. Before testing this hypothesis, we investigated whether the febrigenic effect of intravenously administered PGE2 is mediated by the brain and is not the result of a direct action of PGE2 on thermoeffectors. In anesthetized rats, intravenously injected PGE2 (100 microg/kg) caused an increase in sympathetic discharge to interscapular brown adipose tissue (iBAT), as well as increases in iBAT thermogenesis, end-expired CO2, and colonic temperature (Tc). All these effects were prevented by inhibition of neuronal function in the raphe region of the medulla oblongata using an intra-raphe microinjection of muscimol. We then asked whether the brain-mediated PGE2 fever requires vagal signaling and answered this question by conducting two independent studies in rats. In a study in anesthetized rats, acute bilateral cervical vagotomy did not affect the effects of intravenously injected PGE2 (100 microg/kg) on iBAT sympathetic discharge and Tc. In a study in conscious rats, administration of PGE2 (280 microg/kg) via an indwelling jugular catheter caused tail skin vasoconstriction, tended to increase oxygen consumption, and increased Tc; none of these responses was affected by total truncal subdiaphragmatic vagotomy performed 2 wk before the experiment. We conclude that the febrile response to circulating PGE2 is mediated by the brain, but that it does not require vagal afferent signaling.
People remember emotional and taboo words better than neutral words. It is well known that words that are processed at a deep (i.e., semantic) level are recalled better than words processed at a shallow (i.e., purely visual) level. To determine how depth of processing influences recall of emotional and taboo words, a levels of processing paradigm was used. Whether this effect holds for emotional and taboo words has not been previously investigated. Two experiments demonstrated that taboo and emotional words benefit less from deep processing than do neutral words. This is consistent with the proposal that memories for taboo and emotional words are a function of the arousal level they evoke, even under shallow encoding conditions. Recall was higher for taboo words, even when taboo words were cued to be recalled after neutral and emotional words. The superiority of taboo word recall is consistent with cognitive neuroscience and brain imaging research.
A series of cognitive enhancers (CEs) have been reported to increase spatial memory in rodents, information on behavioral effects, however, is limited. The aim of the study was therefore to examine the behavioral effects of three CEs in two well-documented inbred mouse strains. C57BL/6J and DBA/2 mice were administered intraperitonial. D-cycloserine (DCS; NMDA receptor agonist), 1-(4-Amino-5-chloro-2-methoxyphenyl)-3-[1-butyl-4-piperidinyl]-1-propanone hydrochloride (RS67333; 5HT4-receptor agonist), and (R)-4-{[2-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)ethyl]thio}phenol hydrochloride (SIB-1553A; beta-4-nicotinic receptor agonist) and tested in the open field (OF), elevated plus maze (EPM), neurological observational battery and rota-rod. Cognitive performance was tested in the Morris water maze. All compounds modified behavioral performance in the OF, DCS showed an anxiolytic effect in the EPM, and differences in the observational battery were observed i.e. vestibular drop was decreased by SIB-1553A and RS67333 treatment in C57BL/6J and increased with DCS treatment in DBA/2 mice. In the rota rod SIB-1553A improved motor performance. DCS effects on learning and memory was comparable to controls whereas the other compounds impaired performance in the Morris water maze. In conclusion, behavioral testing of CEs in the mouse revealed significant changes that may have to be taken into account for evaluation of CEs, interpretation of cognitive studies and warrant further neurotoxicological studies. Moreover, strain-dependent differences were observed that in turn may confound results obtained from behavioral and cognitive testing.
We aimed to perform a prospective long-term follow-up of health-related quality of life (QOL) in ALS and to investigate the relationship of personality factors with changes in QOL and disease progression. Data on QOL were collected prospectively for 12 months from 31 ALS patients. Personality factors were studied using the NEO-FFI (NEO Five Factor Inventory). Monthly self-ratings of global QOL, and seven health-related QOL functions, as well as ALSFRS (ALS Functional Rating Scale) scores were analyzed using a linear mixed model approach. QOL and ALSFRS scores decreased during follow-up. Patients who scored higher on the agreeableness personality dimension, despite similar total duration of disease, had higher QOL at the beginning of the follow-up period but the reduction of QOL over time was significantly steeper than in patients who scored lower on agreeableness, associated with faster disease progression. These findings suggest that being less agreeable might serve as a protective factor with respect to QOL and disease progression in ALS.
We wished to determine whether patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) show behavioural changes similar to those of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). There is accumulating evidence to suggest a link between ALS and FTD, yet there has been little systematic exploration of behaviour in ALS. An informant based semi-structured behavioural interview, sensitive to the behavioural changes of FTD, was administered to carers of 16 consecutive patients attending a motor neuron disease clinic. Findings varied across the group. At one extreme informants reported no behavioural change, whereas at the other they reported a spectrum of behaviours similar to those seen in FTD. Changes in affect and social behaviour were most common, although some patients also showed altered response to sensory stimuli, gluttony and indiscriminate eating, behavioural stereotypies and compulsions. Behavioural changes were mirrored by SPECT abnormalities in the frontal and/or temporal lobes. Thus, behavioural changes of the type seen in FTD may be present even in a small consecutive cohort of ALS patients. Detection of behavioural change is crucial for optimal management.


We compared the mobbing response to model snakes of two groups of captive-born common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) differing in genetic relatedness, age and past experience. Mobbing vocalisations (tsik calls), other mobbing behaviour and attention to the stimulus were recorded for 2 min. intervals pre-exposure, during exposure to various stimuli and post-exposure. Marmosets in one group were vocally reactive to all stimuli, although more so to one particular stimulus resembling rearing snakes and modified images of it, whereas the marmosets in a younger and genetically unrelated group attended to the stimuli but made very few mobbing calls. The parent stock of the first group had suffered stress in early life and had developed a phobic response to a specific stimulus, which they had transmitted to their offspring. A third group, matching the older group in age range but genetically unrelated, was also found to be unresponsive to the stimulus that elicited the strongest response in the first group. Cortisol levels in samples of hair were assayed and a significant negative correlation was found between the number of tsik calls made during presentation of the stimuli and the cortisol level, showing that mobbing behaviour/behavioural reactivity is associated with low levels of physiological stress.
Although the technical problem-solving expertise of nonhuman primates has been investigated extensively in captivity, few species have been tested in their natural habitats. Here I examine the physical cognition of wild savanna baboons (Papio anubis), a species that occupies an omnivorous foraging niche in which a variety of embedded food items are extracted and processed. Baboons were tested on three puzzles, each involving high-quality food that required removal from a novel obstruction: (1) a string-pulling puzzle in which food was hung from tree branches, (2) a twig-dipping puzzle in which food was embedded in a vertical tube, and (3) a stick-pushing puzzle in which food was contained in a horizontal conduit. The baboons failed to solve the second and third puzzles even when tools had been appropriately positioned in advance. And although they solved the first puzzle, their actions (running while holding food that was still attached to the string), suggested they did not fully comprehend the string's connective property. The baboons' performance might reflect the time constraints of life in the wild, which relative to captivity may provide fewer opportunities for the development of understanding about the physical properties of objects and their potential uses as tools. Further experiments on the physical cognition of baboons and many other primate species in their natural habitats would help test this ontogenetic hypothesis. Such field experiments would be especially fruitful if they continued to target extractive foragers like baboons: these experiments could simultaneously provide a test of phylogenetic hypotheses that invoke extractive foraging as the key stimulus for brain expansion in savanna-dwelling hominids.


The recent literature providing insights from neuroscience and evolutionary biology into how individuals perceive risky choice situations represents a &quot;second wave&quot; of findings that recapitulates as well as challenges the risk perception research begun in the 1980s, which relied on psychometric survey research. Gleaning insights from the first wave of research that could improve the communication and control of environmental risks has yielded disappointing results. This is a result, in part, of the eagerness of scholars and pundits to posit a chasm between the &quot;rational&quot; and &quot;objective&quot; perceptions of experts, on the one hand, and a lay public that is seen as lurching between &quot;paranoia and neglect&quot; and as insensitive to the magnitude of risks. Interpretations of the psychometric research have suffered from inattention to uncertainty and interindividual variability in risk, to expert biases, and to important aspects of risky choice that were not explored in the first wave of research. Initial signs indicate that neuroscience and evolutionary biology research may fall prey to similar misinterpretations. This article summarizes some of the most intriguing findings of the &quot;second wave&quot; of risk perception research and advances four themes that may help make the new findings less divisive and more useful for improving risk communication and risk management. Continued research into risk perception should perhaps be embedded in a more general theory of public choice in the face of uncertain and variable costs and benefits and with a respect for distributive justice as an important goal in risk management.
Neuroeconomics seeks to gain a greater understanding of decision making by combining theoretical and methodological principles from the fields of psychology, economics, and neuroscience. Initial studies using this multidisciplinary approach have found evidence suggesting that the brain may be employing multiple levels of processing when making decisions, and this notion is consistent with dual-processing theories that have received extensive theoretical consideration in the field of cognitive psychology, with these theories arguing for the dissociation between automatic and controlled components of processing. While behavioral studies provide compelling support for the distinction between automatic and controlled processing in judgment and decision making, less is known if these components have a corresponding neural substrate, with some researchers arguing that there is no evidence suggesting a distinct neural basis. This chapter will discuss the behavioral evidence supporting the dissociation between automatic and controlled processing in decision making and review recent literature suggesting potential neural systems that may underlie these processes.
This chapter provides an overview of studies in the field of neuroscience that investigate some of the processes and concepts of risk perception, risky choice, and decision making under risk. First, early studies in the field of neuroscience addressing the diminished decision-making abilities in lesion patients are presented. A classical task in this research field is described along with its neural implications. After this, the underlying model, its hypotheses, and neuronal implications are discussed. Different aspects within risky decision making, such as the influence of memory, inhibition, motivation, and personality, on risky choice and the respective underlying neuronal substrate are described. After this, studies of risky decision making in healthy subjects are reviewed. A selection of studies shows that theories focusing on cognitive aspects only have to be enriched in order to allow for additional aspects within risky decision making (e.g., emotion). Next, the classical economic approaches and the development of theories incorporating further aspects within economical decision making and the underlying neuronal substrate will be presented. Finally, research in the field of neuroeconomics, focusing on the role of social decision making and evaluative judgment within risky decision making, is reviewed.
Animals navigating through an uncertain world invariably face risks, such as the risk of starvation or predation. Ethological studies suggest that sensitivity to risk in animals has evolved to maximize their Darwinian fitness, which includes optimizing their probability of survival and reproduction, among other considerations. Concomitantly, natural selection has shaped the neural circuitry underlying risky decision making, and recent evidence suggests that risk may be explicitly represented in the brain. Neurons in monkey posterior cingulate cortex show sensitivity to risk during a decision-making task, whereas dopaminergic neurons appear to reflect the degree of reward uncertainty. While such studies bear direct relevance to human neurobiology, it is highly likely that human behavior toward risk was also shaped by evolutionarily recent neural specializations, such as the von Economo neurons. For this reason, both animal and human studies are necessary to reveal the neural mechanisms that underlie risky decision making.
This volume presents the proceedings of the symposium entitled Strategies for Risk Communication: Evolution, Evidence, Experience. The symposium was held in Montauk, Long Island, New York on May 15-17, 2006. It explored practical methods and robust theories of risk communication informed by recent research in risk perception, neuroscience, and the evolutionary social sciences. The symposium focused on what experimental, survey, and brain imaging research has uncovered about how humans process and perceive uncertainty and risks and what the evolutionary history of humans suggests about how we understand and respond to risks. The purpose of the symposium and of this collection of papers is to begin to synthesize the findings from these diverse fields and inform the development of practical strategies for risk communication.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has recently been viewed as an inflammation-dependent systemic disease. Oxidative modifications in the pulmonary microenvironment can result in a number of functional changes in pulmonary tissue as well as in the blood. Studies have been carried out to detect whether oxidatively modified molecules or cells could be considered possible markers of the disease. We hypothesize here that new insights into COPD could come from enzymes involved in deliberate radical generation (i.e., Nox and NOS family enzymes) as well as from alterations of erythrocyte integrity and function, which could become bioindicators of diagnostic or prognostic value in the near future.
We report the clinical and histopathological characteristics of two cases of signet ring cell carcinoma of the eye lids, and discuss the histogenesis of this neoplasm. Two 72-year-old Caucasian males both presented with slowly growing tumours of the eyelids. The tumours were excised and specimens were examined using light- and transmission electron microscopic techniques. Clinically, the tumours infiltrated both eyelids on one side of the face with swelling and periocular inflammation, creating a monocle-like appearance. Extensive clinical work-up excluded periocular metastases. Histopathologically, the tumours were composed of rather bland cells with mainly histiocytoid morphology. A minor proportion had a signet ring cell appearance. The cytoplasmic inclusions giving the signet ring morphology were PAS- and colloidal iron positive. The tumour cells reacted with antibodies against cytokeratins, carcinoembryonic antigen, epithelial membrane antigen, gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 and lysozyme. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated tumour cells containing intracytoplasmic vacuoles lined by microvilli. The tumour cells aggregated in duct-like clusters. A diagnosis of primary signet ring cell carcinoma was made in both cases. Histopathological, immunohistological and ultrastructural findings indicated that the tumours were of sweat gland origin.





The metabolic syndrome (MetS) is represented by the co-occurrence of multiple metabolic and physiologic risk factors for both type 2 diabetes mellitus and atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases. In spite of its high frequency and association with morbidity and mortality in the adult population, very little is known about its magnitude in the elderly and about the validity of the diagnostic criteria commonly used. The objective of this paper is to assess the prevalence rate of MetS and the validity of the Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) diagnostic criteria in an elderly Caucasian cohort, considering data from the Italian Longitudinal Study on Aging (ILSA), a population-based study with a sample of 5632 individuals aged 65-84 years at baseline (1992). Logistic regression models and ROC curve were used to test the validity of the cut off levels proposed. The prevalence of MetS was 31.5% in men, and 59.8% in women. The cut off levels suggested for both men and women by the ATP III panel indicated a significant association with the MetS for all components. Actually, the ROC analysis would suggest lower levels for glycaemia (106 mg/dl) in men, and higher levels for blood pressure in both men and women (145/95 and 135/90, respectively). Concluding, MetS is very common in the aged Caucasians and the diagnostic criteria proposed by the ATP III panel seem to be appropriate in older individuals. Small adjustments in the cut off levels could be suggested for glycaemia (men) and in blood pressure (men and women).
Recent empirical findings suggest a significant influence of emotion on memory processes. Surprisingly, although emotion-processing difficulties appear to be a hallmark feature in autism spectrum disorders (ASD), their impact on higher-level cognitive functions, such as memory, has not been directly studied in this population. The aim of this study was to address this issue by assessing whether the emotional valence of visual scenes affects recall skills in high-functioning individuals with ASD. To this purpose, their recall performance of neutral and emotional pictures was compared with that of typically developing adults (control group). Results revealed that while typically developing individuals showed enhanced recall skills for negative relative to positive and neutral pictures, individuals with ASD recalled the neutral pictures as well as the emotional ones. Findings of this study thus point to reduced influence of emotion on memory processes in ASD than in typically developing individuals, possibly owing to amygdala dysfunctions.
A necessary consequence of the nature of neural transmission systems is that as change in the physical state of a time-varying event takes place, delays produce error between the instantaneous registered state and the external state. Another source of delay is the transmission of internal motor commands to muscles and the inertia of the musculoskeletal system. How does the central nervous system compensate for these pervasive delays? Although it has been argued that delay compensation occurs late in the motor planning stages, even the earliest visual processes, such as phototransduction, contribute significantly to delays. I argue that compensation is not an exclusive property of the motor system, but rather, is a pervasive feature of the central nervous system (CNS) organization. Although the motor planning system may contain a highly flexible compensation mechanism, accounting not just for delays but also variability in delays (e.g., those resulting from variations in luminance contrast, internal body temperature, muscle fatigue, etc.), visual mechanisms also contribute to compensation. Previous suggestions of this notion of &quot;visual prediction&quot; led to a lively debate producing re-examination of previous arguments, new analyses, and review of the experiments presented here. Understanding visual prediction will inform our theories of sensory processes and visual perception, and will impact our notion of visual awareness.
The precise role played by serotonin (5-HT) in taste--an issue of great interest given the involvement of serotonin in human sensory and eating disorders--is a matter of considerable debate, perhaps because of the variety of methodologies that have been brought to bear by different researchers. Here, we use multiple methods to reveal the motivational mechanism whereby 5-HT(1A) receptor activation modulates drinking behavior. Subcutaneous injections of the selective 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-di-n-propylamino-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a drug that reduces 5-HT release by acting on presynaptic autoreceptors, dose-dependently increased consumption of 0.45 M NaCl in a one-bottle test. In a two-bottle test, however, 8-OH-DPAT-treated animals (30 microg/kg/ml) demonstrated decreased NaCl preference--although our detection of this effect was obscured by adaptation to the drug across days. Rats' performance in a brief access test confirmed that 8-OH-DPAT decreased preference for saline by both increasing water consumption and decreasing NaCl consumption. Finally, taste reactivity tests demonstrated that the latter result does not reflect decreased NaCl palatability. Overall, the results suggest that 8-OH-DPAT-induced 5-HT hypofunction increases thirst without substantially affecting the palatability of NaCl.
Measures in autopsied brains from Alzheimer's Disease (AD) patients reveal a decrease in the activity of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) and an increase in malate dehydrogenase (MDH) activity. The present experiments tested whether both changes could be caused by the common oxidant H(2)O(2) and to probe the mechanism underlying these changes. Since the response to H(2)O(2) is modified by the level of the E2k subunit of KGDHC, the interaction of MDH and KGDHC was studied in cells with varying levels of E2k. In cells with only 23% of normal E2k protein levels, one-hour treatment with H(2)O(2) decreased KGDHC and increased MDH activity as well as the mRNA level for both cytosolic and mitochondrial MDH. The increase in MDH did not occur in cells with 100% or 46% of normal E2k. Longer treatments with H(2)O(2) inhibited the activity of both enzymes. Glutathione is a major regulator of cellular redox state and can modify enzyme activities. H(2)O(2) converts reduced glutathione (GSH) to oxidized glutathione (GSSG), which reacts with protein thiols. Treatment of purified KGDHC with GSSG leads to glutathionylation of all three KGDHC subunits. Thus, cellular glutathione level was manipulated by two means to determine the effect on KGDHC and MDH activities. Both buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), which inhibits glutathione synthesis without altering redox state, and H(2)O(2) diminished glutathione to a similar level after 24 h. However, H(2)O(2), but not BSO, reduced KGDHC and MDH activities, and the reduction was greater in the E2k-23 line. These findings suggest that the E2k may mediate diverse responses of KGDHC and MDH to oxidants. In addition, the differential response of activities to BSO and H(2)O(2) together with the in vitro interaction of KGDHC with GSSG suggests that glutathionylation is one possible mechanism underlying oxidative stress-induced inhibition of the TCA cycle enzymes.
This pilot study aims to evaluate the healing of a large defects in the human jawbone filled with a Poly-Lactide-co-Glycolide (PLG) polymer (Fisiograft) by means of clinical, radiological and histological methods and to compare the results with those of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) clot or autologous bone (AB) fillings. Bone cysts, where previous non-surgical treatments failed to promote healing, underwent surgery. Nineteen consenting male patients were randomly split into three groups, packed with PRP, AB or PLG. A core biopsy was performed 4 and 6 months after surgery. All treated defects showed clinical, radiological and histological progresses over time. AB provided the best clinical and histological performance and PLG had overlapping outcomes; PRP filling was statistically different. Six months after surgery, bone activities were enhanced in sites treated with PLG and fairly good with PRP. Additionally, PLG showed some new lamellar formations. In conclusion, outcomes were best with AB graft, but suitable results were achieved using PLG to promote healing of severe bone defects. PLG shows only a delayed regenerative capability but does not require a secondary donor site.
An emerging paradigm for degenerative diseases associated with protein misfolding, such as Alzheimer's disease, is the formation of a toxic species due to structural transitions accompanied by oligomerization. Increasingly, the focus in Alzheimer's disease is on soluble oligomeric forms of the amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) as the potential toxic species. Using a variety of methods, we have analyzed how sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) modulates the folding of Abeta40 and 42 and found that submicellar concentrations of SDS solubilize Abeta and induce structural transitions. Under these conditions, Abeta40 and 42 are interconverting oligomeric ensembles with a predominantly beta-sheet structure. The Abeta42 soluble oligomers form beta-sheet structures more readily and have increased stability compared with Abeta40 under identical conditions. The presence of added Cu(2+) significantly promotes and stabilizes the formation of the soluble oligomeric beta-sheet structures but these structures are nonamyloidogenic. In contrast, in the absence of added Cu(2+), these beta-sheet oligomers possess the hallmarks of amyloidogenic structures. These SDS-induced beta-sheet forms of Abeta, both in the presence and absence of Cu(2+), are toxic to neuronal cells.
The subject of consciousness has intrigued both psychologists and neuroscientists for many years. Recently, following many recent advances in the emerging field of cognitive neuroscience, there is the possibility that this fundamental process may soon be explained. In particular, there have been dramatic insights gained into the mechanisms of attention, cognition and perception in recent decades. Here, simple network models are proposed which are used to create a representation of consciousness. The models are inspired by the structure of the thalamus and all incorporate topographic layers in their structure. Operation of the models allows filtering of the information reaching the representation according to (1) modality and/or (2) sub-modality, in addition several of the models allowing filtering at the topographic level. The models presented have different structures and employ different integrative mechanisms to produce gating or amplification at different levels; the resultant representations of consciousness are discussed.

CCL2 (MCP-1) has been shown to enhance HIV-1 replication. The expression of this chemokine by macrophages is up-modulated as a consequence of viral infection or gp120 exposure. In this study, we show for the first time that the phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase C (PC-PLC) is required for the production of CCL2 triggered by gp120 in human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs). Using a combination of pharmacologic inhibition, confocal laser-scanner microscopy, and enzymatic activity assay, we demonstrate that R5 gp120 interaction with CCR5 activates PC-PLC, as assessed by a time-dependent modification of its subcellular distribution and a concentration-dependent increase of its enzymatic activity. Furthermore, PC-PLC is required for NF-kB-mediated CCL2 production triggered by R5 gp120. Notably, PC-PLC activation through CCR5 is specifically induced by gp120, since triggering CCR5 through its natural ligand CCL4 (MIP-1beta) does not affect PC-PLC cellular distribution and enzymatic activity, as well as CCL2 secretion, thus suggesting that different signaling pathways can be activated through CCR5 interaction with HIV-1 or chemokine ligands. The identification of PC-PLC as a critical mediator of well-defined gp120-mediated effects in MDMs unravels a novel mechanism involved in bystander activation and may contribute to define potential therapeutic targets to block Env-triggered pathologic responses.

Hydrocephalus is a life-threatening condition presenting with a wide range of symptoms to a variety of specialties. Resulting delays in diagnosis can be hazardous. Doctors in all specialties should be familiar with the protean presentations of hydrocephalus.
Spinal haemangiomas are benign vasoproliferative lesions that are typically intra-osseous and generally asymptomatic, although localized pain can be a symptom. Capillary and cavernous variants have been described. We describe a rare case of a dumbbell-shaped haemangioma of the thoracic spine with both an intraspinal-extradural and intrathoracic component.
A simple way of evaluating surgical outcomes is to compare mortality and morbidity. Such comparisons may be misleading without a proper case mix. The POSSUM scoring system was developed to overcome this problem. The score can be used to derive predictive mortality and morbidity for surgical procedures. POSSUM and a modified version P-POSSUM have been evaluated in various groups of surgical patients for the accuracy of predicting mortality. These scoring systems have not been evaluated in neurosurgical patients. Thus, we tried to evaluate the usefulness of POSSUM and P-POSSUM scoring systems in neurosurgical patients in predicting in-hospital mortality. POSSUM physiological and operative variables were collected from all neurosurgical patients undergoing elective craniotomy, from April 2005 to Feb 2006. In-hospital mortality was obtained from the hospital mortality register. The physiological score, operative score, POSSUM predicted mortality rate and P-POSSUM predicted mortality rate were calculated using a calculator. The observed number of deaths was compared against the predicted deaths. A total of 285 patients with a mean age of 38 +/- 15 years were studied. Overall observed mortality was nine patients (3.16%). The mortality predicted by the P-POSSUM model was also nine patients (3.16%). Mortality predicted by POSSUM was poor with predicted deaths in 31 patients (11%). The difference between observed and predicted deaths at different risk levels was not significant with P-POSSUM (p = 0.424) and was significantly different with POSSUM score (p &lt; 0.001). P-POSSUM scoring system was highly accurate in predicting the overall mortality in neurosurgical patients. In contrast, POSSUM score was not useful for prediction of mortality.
Spinal neurenteric cysts are intradural cystic lesions. These represent a part of the spectrum of developmental anomalies. These are rare lesions. Most of the data in literature is review of case reports. This made us evaluate our results of 23 cases and review the literature. This is a retrospective study of 23 patients managed at our institute over 20 years. The slides were retrieved and histopathological features studied. Twenty patients were less than 30 years old and 21 were males. Follow-up was available for 21 patients with mean duration of 71 months (range 2 months to 23 years). The typical presentation was backache with progressive neurological deficits pertaining to the level. Atypical presentations as acute onset, recurrent episodic events and aseptic meningitis were also noted. The cervicothoracic region was the most common site. 16 patients had cyst in intradural extramedullary plane and seven had intramedullary location. Associated vertebral anomalies as hemivertebrae, Klippel-Feil and spina bifida were noted in seven patients. There were two histological types of cysts with no correlation between the type of cysts and associated vertebral anomalies and extent of outcome. Partial excision though had higher risk of recurrence, was not associated with poorer outcome. Dorsal approach is an acceptable route with reasonably good results for this lesion. Spinal neurenteric cysts present at younger age with varied clinical presentations. These are commonly located intradurally ventral to the cord. Histological types have no effect on the outcome. Total excision is the choice of treatment. However, partial excision is a feasible option in intramedullary lesions and when significant adhesions occur. Although associated with higher risk of recurrence, the outcome is still good in these patients on re-excision.
The pathogenesis of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) is poorly understood. Several mechanisms have been suggested, but no one mechanism has been able to account for all manifestations of the disease. Although IIH predominantly affects obese, premenopausal women, little is known about whether or how the obesity contributes to the IIH. Obesity is a heterogeneous condition, consisting of different phenotypes that are influenced by the regional distribution of adipose tissue. This review explores the literature to integrate current knowledge on the relationships between obesity and IIH. The review evaluates the hypotheses that dysregulation of insulin, glucose metabolism, sex hormones, adipokines, glucocorticoids, lipids and free fatty acids in obesity could predispose to IIH. One potential common pathway linking metabolic disorders to the pathogenesis of IHH is a thrombotic tendency due to dysregulation of haemostatic risk factors. This could cause either occult cerebral sinus thrombosis or partial thrombosis of the parasagittal venous lacunae, with subsequent impaired resorption of cerebrospinal fluid and venous hypertension. Investigations that evaluate obesity, fat metabolism, endocrinological dysregulation and thrombotic tendency in patients with IIH are required so that pathogenic mechanisms can be clarified and management strategies in IIH can be improved.

The endocannabinoid lipid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is deactivated by intracellular hydrolysis catalyzed by monoacylglycerol lipase. 2-AG also serves as a substrate for oxidative metabolism catalyzed by cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2). However, products of COX-2-mediated metabolism of endocannabinoids have not been identified in vivo. Hu and colleagues in this issue of the BJP demonstrate that COX-2 converts 2-AG into a biologically active, pro-nociceptive compound, prostaglandin E2 glycerol ester (PGE2-G). PGE2-G produces hyperalgesia in vivo and activates a rapidly acting transcription factor, nuclear factor kappa-B in vitro. These biological actions may be attributed to a unique receptor. This report of pro-nociceptive actions of an endogenous COX-2 metabolite of 2-AG that are largely opposite to known anti-nociceptive and anti-inflammatory actions of endocannabinoids has physiological relevance. These discoveries place renewed emphasis on the importance of understanding the highly interactive nature of lipid signalling pathways in the nervous system and the physiological roles of these lipid mediators in controlling homeostasis.
Executive dysfunctions have long been considered a common feature of schizophrenia. However, due to their extreme heterogeneity, it is not clear whether these impairments take place at a particular level of executive functioning or non-specifically affect various aspects of behavioural control. To answer this question, we used an experimental paradigm based upon a multistage model of prefrontal executive function. This model postulates that cognitive control is organized in three hierarchically ordered control processes, operating with respect to the perceptual context (sensory and contextual controls) or the temporal episode in which the person is acting (episodic control). Twenty-four patients with schizophrenia and 24 non-psychiatric controls participated in two distinct experiments designed to separately assess each of these three levels of control. The results indicate that both sensory and episodic dimensions of cognitive control were spared in schizophrenic patients, but that they showed great difficulty in contextual conditions, as the selection of the appropriate response among competitive ones required taking into account information related to perceptual context. Contextual control can be considered as a set of executive processes mediating the hierarchical organization of behaviour. Patients' deficit in cognitive control therefore reflects a specific problem in the hierarchical control of action, leading to the selection of inappropriate behavioural representations for ongoing action plans. We also showed that this impairment was a good predictor of disorganization syndrome scores, suggesting that these clinical manifestations might result from a deficit in the combination or selection of hierarchically organized action representations.
An important characteristic of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is increased visual detail perception. Yet, there is no standing neurobiological explanation for this aspect of the disorder. We show evidence from EEG data, from 31 control subjects (three females) and 13 subjects (two females) aged 16-28 years, for a specific impairment in object boundary detection in ASD, which is present as early as 120 ms after stimulus presentation. In line with a neural network model explicating the role of feedforward, horizontal and recurrent processing in visual perception, we can attribute this deficit to a dysfunction of horizontal connections within early visual areas. Interestingly, ASD subjects showed an increase in subsequent activity at lateral occipital sites (225 ms), which might reflect a compensational mechanism. In contrast, recurrent processing between higher and lower visual areas (around 260 ms), associated with the segregation between figure and background, was normal. Our results show specific neural abnormalities in ASD related to low-level visual processing. In addition, given the reconciliation between our findings and previous neuropathology and neurochemistry research, we suggest that atypical horizontal interactions might reflect a more general neural abnormality in this disorder.
Previous studies examining explicit semantic processing have consistently shown activation of the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). In contrast, implicit semantic processing tasks have shown activation in posterior areas including the superior temporal gyrus (STG) and the middle temporal gyrus (MTG) with less consistent activation in the IFG. These results raise the question whether the functional role of the IFG is related to those processes needed to make a semantic decision or to processes involved in the extraction and analysis of meaning. This study examined neural activation patterns during a semantic judgment task requiring overt semantic analysis, and then compared these activation patterns to previously obtained results using the same semantically related and unrelated word pairs in a lexical decision task which required only implicit semantic processing (Rissman, J., Eliassen, J. C., &amp; Blumstein, S. E. (2003). An event-related fMRI investigation of implicit semantic priming. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 15, 1160-1175). The behavioral results demonstrated that the tasks were equivalent in difficulty. fMRI results indicated that the IFG and STG bilaterally showed greater activation for semantically unrelated than related word pairs across the two tasks. Comparison of the two task types across conditions revealed greater activation for the semantic judgment task only in the STG bilaterally and not in the IFG. These results suggest that the pre-frontal cortex is recruited similarly in the service of both the lexical decision and semantic judgment tasks. The increased activation in the STG in the semantic judgment task reflects the greater depth of semantic processing required in this task and indicates that the STG is not simply a passive store of lexical-semantic information but is involved in the active retrieval of this information.
Although psychophysics has already been used in many neurological evaluations including the visual and hearing tests, the use of psychophysics has been limited to the evaluation of sensory disorders. In this review paper, however, the author introduced recent attempts to apply psychophysics to the evaluation of higher cognitive functions such as perception of scenes and facial expressions. Psychophysics was also used to measure visual hypersensitivity in a patient with migraine. The benefits of the use of psychophysics in neurological and neuropsychological settings would be as follows. (1) We can evaluate higher cognitive functions quantitatively. (2) We can measure performance both above and below the normal range by the same method. (3) We can use the same stimulus and task as other research areas such as neuroscience and neuroimaging, and compare results between research areas.
During the embryonic development, neurons migrate from their origin to their final position. Control of neuronal migrations is critical for formation of the complex architecture of the central nervous system. In the developing central nervous system, there are two major patterns of neuronal migrations. One is radial migration and the other is tangential migration. In radial migration, migrating cells move along radial fibers that are processes of radial glial cells. Contact between radial glial cells and migrating cells has been supposed to control radial migration. In tangential migration, some tracts of neuronal migrations are controlled by chemokines. Neuronal migration utilizes its own migratory strategies, such as cell-cell contact with radial glial cells as well as common principles of cell migration like chemoattractants. As cell migrations reflect cytoskeletal changes in the cells, external cues like chemoattractants and cell adhesion finally influence the structure of cytoskeleton in migrating neurons. We summarize previous studies on cell migration and discuss specific mechanisms of neural migration in this review.
Brain is the most complex organ and believed to contain approximately 10 billion neurons supported by 100 billion glial cells. Due to the recent progress in molecular developmental biology and molecular genetics, the molecular mechanism of operation in controlling the development of central nervous system has been identified and responsible genes have been documented for various deficiencies. The Pax6, a member of the Pax family of transcription factors, is first identified as a master control gene for development of the eyes. We now know that the Pax6 has crucial roles in various developmental processes of the telencephalon including dorsal-ventral and anterior-posterior patterning, specification of neuronal subtypes, neuronal migration and axonal projection. Pax6 deficient mice lack the eyes and nose, and show major defects in cortical lamination and brain size. Recent studies have identified that Pax6 contributes to neurogenesis (production of nerve cells) in the postnatal brain. In this review, we introduce multiple functions of Pax6 in the developing central nervous system and in postnatal neurogenesis.
The cerebral cortex is one of the most intricate structures in the vertebrate brain, and enormous expansion in size and complexity are conspicuous features in the mammalian cortex. Although how the cerebral cortex evolved from ancestor brains still remains elusive, recent advances of developmental neurobiology shed light on the molecular mechanisms underlying cortical development, and also provide novel insights into the origin of the mammalian cerebral cortex. Here I introduce classical concepts and modern theories on the process for making morphological and functional diversity of the cerebral cortex. In this review, we especially focus on possible mechanism that provide 1) morphological diversity of the amniotes' cortex, 2) expansion of the mammalian neocortical areas, and 3) advancement of human cognitive abilities, based on accumulating knowledge of the comparative brain anatomy, molecular neurobiology, anthropology and cognitive archaeology.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), there is abnormal accumulation of Abeta and tau proteins in the brain. There is an associated immunological response, but it is still unclear whether this is beneficial or harmful. Inflammation in AD, specifically in the form of microglial activation, has, for many years, been considered to contribute to disease progression. However, two types of evidence suggest that it may be appropriate to revise this view: first, the disappointing results of prospective clinical trials of anti-inflammatory agents and, second, the observation that microglia can clear plaques in AD following Abeta immunization. Although Abeta immunization alters AD pathology, there is limited evidence so far of benefit to cognitive function. Immunization against microorganisms is almost always used as a method of disease prevention rather than to treat a disease process that has already started. In animal models, immunotherapy at an early age can protect against Abeta accumulation and it will be interesting to see if this can usefully be applied to humans to prevent AD.
Alzheimer's disease is the commonest dementia. One major characteristic of its pathology is accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) as insoluble deposits in brain parenchyma and in blood vessel walls [cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA)]. The distribution of Abeta deposits in the basement membranes of cerebral capillaries and arteries corresponds to the perivascular drainage pathways by which interstitial fluid (ISF) and solutes are eliminated from the brain--effectively the lymphatic drainage of the brain. Theoretical models suggest that vessel pulsations supply the motive force for perivascular drainage of ISF and solutes. As arteries stiffen with age, the amplitude of pulsations is reduced and insoluble Abeta is deposited in ISF drainage pathways as CAA, thus, further impeding the drainage of soluble Abeta. Failure of perivascular drainage of Abeta and deposition of Abeta in the walls of arteries has two major consequences: (i) intracerebral hemorrhage associated with rupture of Abeta-laden arteries in CAA; and (ii) Alzheimer's disease in which failure of elimination of ISF, Abeta and other soluble metabolites from the brain alters homeostasis and the neuronal environment resulting in cognitive decline and dementia. Therapeutic strategies that improve elimination of Abeta and other soluble metabolites from the brain may prevent cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD) Abeta accumulates because of imbalance between the production of Abeta and its removal from the brain. There is increasing evidence that in most sporadic forms of AD, the accumulation of Abeta is partly, if not in some cases solely, because of defects in its removal--mediated through a combination of diffusion along perivascular extracellular matrix, transport across vessel walls into the blood stream and enzymatic degradation. Multiple enzymes within the central nervous system (CNS) are capable of degrading Abeta. Most are produced by neurons or glia, but some are expressed in the cerebral vasculature, where reduced Abeta-degrading activity may contribute to the development of cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). Neprilysin and insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), which have been most extensively studied, are expressed both neuronally and within the vasculature. The levels of both of these enzymes are reduced in AD although the correlation with enzyme activity is still not entirely clear. Other enzymes shown capable of degrading Abetain vitro or in animal studies include plasmin; endothelin-converting enzymes ECE-1 and -2; matrix metalloproteinases MMP-2, -3 and -9; and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). The levels of plasmin and plasminogen activators (uPA and tPA) and ECE-2 are reported to be reduced in AD. Reductions in neprilysin, IDE and plasmin in AD have been associated with possession of APOEepsilon4. We found no change in the level or activity of MMP-2, -3 or -9 in AD. The level and activity of ACE are increased, the level being directly related to Abeta plaque load. Up-regulation of some Abeta-degrading enzymes may initially compensate for declining activity of others, but as age, genetic factors and diseases such as hypertension and diabetes diminish the effectiveness of other Abeta-clearance pathways, reductions in the activity of particular Abeta-degrading enzymes may become critical, leading to the development of AD and CAA.
The Bordeaux Neuroscience Institute brings together all the disciplines that constitute the clinical and experimental neurosciences. Outside of the Paris region, the Institute represents the largest community of researchers working on the nervous system. The aim of this brief historical piece is to describe how neuroscientists in Bordeaux are the heirs to a long neuropsychiatric tradition established by pioneers of national and international renown. This tradition has been maintained, without interruption, through many generations. The careers and scientific work of these great neurologists and psychiatrists are briefly evoked, and particularly those of A. Pitres, E. Rgis and E. Azam in the 19th century; and, in the 20th century, J. Abadie, H. Verger and R. Cruchet. The determining influence of P Delmas-Marsalet (1898-1977), Professor of Neuropsychiatry, on the development of modern neurosciences in Bordeaux is recalled through his work, his teachings, and his numerous students.




In vertebrate cells, the small ubiquitin-like modifier SUMO plays a poorly defined role in targeting DNA topoisomerase II (TopoII) to centromeres (CENs) during mitosis, presumably to facilitate the untangling of sister chromatids as cells transition into anaphase. A new study by Dawlaty in the April 4 issue of Cell identifies the nucleoporin RanBP2 as a novel tumor suppressor that acts as a SUMO ligase for TopoII. Analysis of this interaction reveals TopoII recruitment to CENs is likely to play an important role in preventing chromosome segregation errors that lead to cancer.
Images are powerful means of communicating scientific results; a strong image can underscore an experimental result more effectively than any words, whereas a poor image can readily undermine a result or conclusion. Developmental biologists rely extensively on images to compare normal versus abnormal development and communicate their results. Most undergraduate lab science courses do not actively teach students skills to communicate effectively through images. To meet this need, we developed a series of image portfolio assignments and imaging workshops in our Developmental Biology course to encourage students to develop communication skills using images. The improvements in their images over the course of the semester were striking, and on anonymous course evaluations, 73% of students listed imaging skills as the most important skill or concept they learned in the course. The image literacy skills acquired through simple lab assignments and in-class workshops appeared to stimulate confidence in the student's own evaluations of current scientific literature to assess research conclusions. In this essay, we discuss our experiences and methodology teaching undergraduates the basic criteria involved in generating images that communicate scientific content and provide a road map for integrating this curriculum into any upper-level biology laboratory course.
TRPV3 is a non-selective cation channel activated by warm to hot temperatures. In rodents, TRPV3 is highly expressed in basal keratinocytes of skin and oral/nasal epithelia. TRPV3 knockout mice showed impaired responses to innocuous and noxious heat but otherwise normal appearance and reactions to many sensory modalities. However, point mutations of TRPV3 at Gly573 to Ser and Cys have recently been linked to autosomal dominant hairless phenotypes and spontaneous dermatitis in mice and rats, implicating an important role for TRPV3 in alopecia and skin diseases. Exactly, how the mutations affect TRPV3 function was unexplained. Here, we show that both G573S and G573C mutations of murine TRPV3 are constitutively active in heterologous systems. In HEK 293 cells, expression of the TRPV3 mutants causes cell death. In Xenopus oocytes, the constitutively active mutant channel is irresponsive to thermal and chemical stimuli but it reduces the temperature threshold and enhances the responses to heat and TRPV3 agonists of the wild type channel when they are co-expressed. We conclude that the G573S and G573C substitutions render the TRPV3 channel spontaneously active under normal physiological conditions, which in turn alters ion homeostasis and membrane potentials of skin keratinocytes, leading to hair loss and dermatitis-like skin diseases.
The arenaviruses Lassa virus (LASV) in Africa and Machupo (MACV), Guanarito (GTOV) and Junin viruses (JUNV) in South America cause severe haemorrhagic fevers in humans with fatality rates of 15-35%. The present review focuses on the first steps of infection with human pathogenic arenaviruses, the interaction with their cellular receptor molecules and subsequent entry into the host cell. While similarities exist in genomic organization, structure and clinical disease caused by pathogenic Old World and New World arenaviruses these pathogens use different primary receptors. The Old World arenaviruses employ alpha-dystroglycan, a cellular receptor for proteins of the extracellular matrix, and the human pathogenic New World arenaviruses use the cellular cargo receptor transferrin receptor 1. While the New World arenavirus JUNV enters cells via clathrin-dependent endocytosis, evidence occurred for clathrin-independent entry of the prototypic Old World arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus. Upon internalization, arenaviruses are delivered to the endosome, where pH-dependent membrane fusion is mediated by the envelope glycoprotein (GP). While arenavirus GPs share characteristics with class I fusion GPs of other enveloped viruses, unusual mechanistic features of GP-mediated membrane fusion have recently been discovered for arenaviruses with important implications for viral entry.
Research on aging in model organisms has revealed different molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of the lifespan. Studies on Saccharomyces cerevisiae have highlighted the role of the Sir2 family of genes, human Sirtuin homologs, as the longevity factors. In Caenorhabditis elegans, the daf-16 gene, a mammalian homolog of FoxO genes, was shown to function as a longevity gene. A wide array of studies has provided evidence for a role of the activation of innate immunity during aging process in mammals. This process has been called inflamm-aging. The master regulator of innate immunity is the NF-kappaB system. In this review, we focus on the several interactions of aging-associated signaling cascades regulated either by Sirtuins and FoxOs or NF-kappaB signaling pathways. We provide evidence that signaling via the longevity factors of FoxOs and SIRT1 can inhibit NF-kappaB signaling and simultaneously protect against inflamm-aging process.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are a unique type of glial cells that have axonal growth-promoting properties. OEC transplantation has emerged as a promising experimental therapy of axonal injuries and demyelinating diseases. However, some fundamental cellular properties of OECs remain unclear. In this study, we found that the distinct OEC subpopulations exhibited different migratory properties based on time-lapse imaging of single isolated cells, possibly due to their different cytoskeletal organizations. Moreover, OEC subpopulations displayed different attractive migratory responses to a gradient of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) in single-cell migration assays. Finally, we found that OEC subpopulations transformed into each other spontaneously. Together, these results demonstrate, for the first time to our knowledge, that distinct OEC subpopulations display different migratory properties in vitro and provide new evidence to support the notion of OECs as a single cell type with malleable functional phenotypes.
Neuronal differentiation of the NG108-15 neuroblastoma-glioma hybrid cells is accompanied by a marked attenuation in the heat shock induction of the Hsp70-firefly luciferase reporter gene activity. Analysis of the amount and activation of heat shock factor 1, induction of mRNA(hsp), and the synthesis and accumulation of heat shock proteins (HSPs) in the undifferentiated and differentiated cells suggest a transcriptional mechanism for this attenuation. Concomitant with a decreased induction of the 72-kDa Hsp70 protein in the differentiated cells, there is an increased abundance of the constitutive 73-kDa Hsc70, a protein known to function in vesicle trafficking. Assessment of sensitivity of the undifferentiated and differentiated cells against stress-induced cell death reveals a significantly greater vulnerability of the differentiated cells toward the cytotoxic effects of arsenite and glutamate/glycine. This study shows that changes in regulation of the HSP and HSC proteins are components of the neuronal cell differentiation program and that the attenuated induction of HSPs likely contributes to neuronal vulnerability whereas the increased expression of Hsc70 likely has a role in neural-specific functions.
Subjects with migraine with aura (MA) have a high prevalence of white matter lesions (WMLs) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Moreover, right-to-left shunt (RILES), mainly due to patent foramen ovale, is frequently associated with MA. The aim of this study was to clarify the relationship between RILES and WML in MA. We enrolled 87 consecutive subjects affected by MA. Patients were screened for migraine characteristics and cerebrovascular risk factors. Transcranial Doppler was used to diagnose RILES and MRI with T2-weighted and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) to evaluate presence, number and volume of WMLs. RILES was present in 45% of patients. We did not detect any DWI hyperintense lesion; WMLs were present in 61% of patients on T2-weighted images. Presence of WMLs did not correlate with any migraine clinical feature, whereas the presence, number and volume of WMLs increased with subjects' age. There was no significant difference in the total volume and number of WMLs in the group with and without RILES. In conclusion, RILES does not increase the likelihood of finding WMLs in migraineurs.
We aimed to describe and classify headaches associated with acute stroke, by interviewing patients consecutively admitted to a stroke unit using a validated headache questionnaire and the International Classification of Headache Disorders of the International Headache Society (IHS). One hundred and twenty-four patients (61% ischaemic and 39% haemorrhagic stroke) reported headache. Headaches started mostly on the day of stroke, were more often continuous, pressure-type, bilateral and located in the anterior region, were increased by movement and by cough and lasted for a mean of 3.8 days. Tension-type was the most frequent type of headache. Eleven per cent of headaches could not be classified using the criteria of the IHS. Previous primary headache was documented in 71 patients. The presence of nausea/vomiting due to acute stroke can confound headache classification using the IHS criteria. In up to half of the patients, headache seems to be a reactivation of previous primary headache.
Dopamine (DA) exerts a strong influence on inhibition in prefrontal cortex. The main cortical interneuron subtype targeted by DA are fast-spiking gamma-aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) cells that express the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin. D1 stimulation depolarizes these interneurons and increases excitability evoked by current injection. The present study examined whether this direct DA-dependent modulation of fast-spiking interneurons involves DARPP-32. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from fast-spiking interneurons in brain slices from DARPP-32 knockout (KO) mice, wild-type mice, and rats. Low concentrations of DA (100 nM) increased interneuron excitability via D1 receptors, protein kinase A, and cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in slices from both normal and DARPP-32 KO mice. Immunohistochemical staining of slices from normal animals revealed a lack of colocalization of DARPP-32 with calcium-binding proteins selective for fast-spiking interneurons, indicating that these interneurons do not express DARPP-32. Therefore, although DARPP-32 impacts cortical inhibition through a previously demonstrated D2-dependent regulation of GABAergic currents in pyramidal cells, it is not involved in the direct D1-mediated regulation of fast-spiking interneurons.
Epidemiologic evidence suggests that cognitive reserve (CR) mitigates the effects of aging on cognitive function. The goal of this study was to see whether a common neural mechanism for CR could be demonstrated in brain imaging data acquired during the performance of 2 tasks with differing cognitive processing demands. Young and elder subjects were scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing a delayed item response task that used either letters (40 young, 18 old) or shapes (24 young, 21 old). Difficulty or load was manipulated by varying the number of stimuli that were presented for encoding. Load-dependent fMRI signal corresponding to each trial component (stimulus presentation, retention delay, and probe) and task (letter or shape) was regressed onto 2 putative CR variables. Canonical variates analysis was applied to the resulting maps of regression coefficients, separately for each trial component, to summarize the imaging data--CR relationships. There was a latent brain pattern noted in the stimulus presentation phase that manifested similar relationships between load-related encoding activation and CR variables across the letter and shape tasks in the young but not the elder age group. This spatial pattern could represent a general neural instantiation of CR that is affected by the aging process.
It has often been proposed that regions of the human parietal and/or frontal lobe may modulate activity in visual cortex, for example, during selective attention or saccade preparation. However, direct evidence for such causal claims is largely missing in human studies, and it remains unclear to what degree the putative roles of parietal and frontal regions in modulating visual cortex may differ. Here we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) concurrently, to show that stimulating right human intraparietal sulcus (IPS, at a site previously implicated in attention) elicits a pattern of activity changes in visual cortex that strongly depends on current visual context. Increased intensity of IPS TMS affected the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal in V5/MT+ only when moving stimuli were present to drive this visual region, whereas TMS-elicited BOLD signal changes were observed in areas V1-V4 only during the absence of visual input. These influences of IPS TMS upon remote visual cortex differed significantly from corresponding effects of frontal (eye field) TMS, in terms of how they related to current visual input and their spatial topography for retinotopic areas V1-V4. Our results show directly that parietal and frontal regions can indeed have distinct patterns of causal influence upon functional activity in human visual cortex.
The postnatal development and lifespan alterations in basal dendrites of large layer IIIC and layer V pyramidal neurons were quantitatively studied. Both classes of neurons were characterized by rapid dendritic growth during the first postnatal months. At birth, layer V pyramidal neurons had larger and more complex dendritic trees than those of layer IIIC; however, at 1 postnatal month both classes of neurons displayed a similar extent of dendritic outgrowth. In addition, after a more than year-long &quot;dormant&quot; period of only fine dendritic rearrangement, layer IIIC pyramidal neurons displayed a second period of dendritic growth, starting at the end of the second year and continuing in the third year. During that period, the dendritic tree of layer IIIC pyramidal neurons became more extensive than that of layer V pyramidal neurons. Thus, layer IIIC pyramidal neurons appear to show a biphasic pattern of postnatal dendritic development. Furthermore, the childhood period was characterized by transient increase in size of pyramidal cell somata, which was more pronounced for neurons in layer IIIC. These structural changes occurred during both the period of rapid cognitive development in preschool children and the period of protracted cognitive maturation during the childhood, puberty, and adolescence.
The mammalian neocortex comprises two major neuronal subtypes; interneurons derived from the ganglionic eminence (GE) and projection neurons from the cortical ventricular zone (VZ). These separate origins necessitate distinct pathways of migration. Using mouse genetics and embryonic forebrain slice culture assays, we sought to identify substrates and/or guidance molecules for nonradial cell migration (NRCM). Mice carrying a mutation in Pax6 (Sey(-/-)), a paired domain transcription factor, are reported to have increased numbers of cortical inhibitory interneurons, suggesting that Pax6 could induce inhibitors of interneuron development or alternatively play a repressive role in guiding NRCM and/or specifying interneurons. Unexpectedly, we found a cell nonautonomous reduction in the distance Sey-/- neurons migrated, reflecting a disorganized migration, with frequent changes in direction. In contrast, no difference in the number of nonradially migrating GE cells was observed in Sey-/- mice. Our data indicate that the increased numbers of interneurons observed in Sey-/- do not result from an increased rate or number of nonradially migrating cells; instead, loss of Pax6 results in the ectopic specification of interneurons in the cortical VZ. Further, our data indicate that the known axonal disorganization in Sey-/- mice contributes to the observed reduced distance of NRCM.

There is an ongoing debate of how best to measure the effects of sleep loss in a reliable and feasible way, partly because well controlled laboratory studies and field studies have come to different conclusions. The aims of the present study were to investigate both sleepiness and performance in response to long-term sleep restriction and recovery in a semi-laboratory environment, investigate order effects (i.e., whether levels return to baseline) in a study with seven days of recovery, and characterize individual differences in tolerance to restricted sleep. Nine healthy men (age 23-28 yrs) participated in the protocol, which included one habituation day (sleep 23:00-07:00 h), two baseline days (23:00-07:00 h), five days with restricted sleep (03:00-07:00 h), and seven recovery days (23:00-07:00 h). Participants went outdoors at least twice each day. Reaction-time tests were performed at 08:00, 14:00, and 20:00 h each day in the laboratory. Sleepiness was self-rated by the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS)after each test. The mixed-effect regression models showed that each day of restricted sleep resulted in an increase of sleepiness by 0.64+/- .05 KSS units (a nine-step scale, p &lt; .001), increase of median reaction times of 6.6+/- 1.6 ms ( p = .003), and increase of lapses/test of 0.69 +/- .16 ms ( p &lt; .001). Seven days of recovery allowed participants to return to the baseline for sleepiness and median reaction time, but not for lapses. The individual differences were larger for performance measures than for sleepiness; the between-subject standard deviation for the random intercept was in the magnitude of the effects of 1.1 days of restricted sleep for sleepiness, 6.6 days of restricted sleep for median reaction time, and 3.2 days for lapses. In conclusion, the present study shows that sleepiness is closely related to sleep pressure, while performance measures, to a larger extent, appear determined by specific individual traits. Moreover, it is suggested to measure sleepiness in a standardized situation so as to minimize the influences of contextual factors.
The electrical activity in the electroencephalogram (EEG) and the event-related potentials extracted from the EEG provide the greatest temporal resolution for examining brain function. When coupled with the high spatial resolution of structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI), the combined techniques provide a powerful tool for neuroscience in the examination of brain abnormalities in major psychiatric illnesses. Over the last 20 years, our work has examined brain structure and function in schizophrenia. Both EEG and MRI measures have indicated profound abnormalities in schizophrenia within the temporal lobe, particularly marked over the left hemisphere. Our studies of patients first hospitalized due to psychosis revealed the early course of the disease to be characterized by progressive impairment and cortical gray matter reduction, most intense near the time of first hospitalization. Knowledge of those locations and brain signals affected early should help understand the basic physiological defect underlying this progression, with potential implications for new therapeutic interventions.
Various aetiopathological mechanisms have been postulated to be at the root of Menire's disease (MD), and some data suggest that there may be also an underlying autoimmune factor. In fact, Menire patients manifest certain characteristics that are typical of autoimmune involvement association of particular human leucocyte antigen haplotypes, the presence of antibodies against internal ear antigens. In this study, we evaluated the association between thyroid autoimmunity and MD in a non-selected group of patients. We recruited 50 consecutive MD patients and two groups as controls: group A, 82 healthy volunteers; and group B, 50 subjects suffering from acute unilateral peripheral vestibulopathy. All subjects were submitted to instrumental assessment of cochlear-vestibular function and analysis of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free triiodothyronine, free thyroxine, anti-TSH receptor antibody (TR-Ab), anti-thyroperoxidase antibody (TPO-Ab) and anti-thyroglobulin antibody (Tg-Ab) in the blood. The prevalence of autoimmune thyroiditis in group B [6/50 (12%); 66.7% TPO-Ab and 33.3% Tg-Ab] was superimposable with the healthy controls [6/82 (7%); 66.7% TPO-Ab and 33.3% Tg-Ab]. In contrast, 38% of the MD patients (P = 0.0001 versus group A and group B) had significant autoantibody levels (68.4% TPO-Ab; 15.8% TPO-Ab + TR-Ab; 10.5% Tg-Ab; 5.2% TPO-Ab + Tg-Ab). Furthermore, 14% of the MD patients were hyperthyroid under l-thyroxine therapy, while no dysfunction was seen in the control groups. Overall, our data demonstrate a significant association between MD and thyroid autoimmunity, which suggests that an autoimmune factor is involved in the aetiopathogenesis of this disease. These findings suggest that it should be useful to submit MD patients to multi-disciplinary clinical investigation.
1. Sympathetic and somatic motor outflow results from the summation of excitatory and inhibitory inputs arising from intra- and supra-spinal origins. Here we determined the contribution of intra- and supra-spinal GABAergic inputs, utilizing GABA-A receptors, in producing sympathetic and somatic motor outflow. 2. Spinal GABA-A receptor blockade, with bicuculline or picrotoxin injected intrathecally at T9, increased the level and lability of arterial pressure, sympathetic (splanchnic and cervical sympathetic) and motor (phrenic) nerve activity. Bursts of activity occurring irregularly, at low frequency were seen in all nerves. 3. C1 spinal transection abolished phrenic nerve activity and reduced sympathetic nerve activities and arterial pressure. Intrathecal bicuculline-induced bursting in sympathetic and motor (phrenic, sciatic and brachial) nerves was similar to that seen prior to C1 transection. Thus supraspinal control of sympathetic and somatomotor outflow is not dependent on GABA-A receptors. 4. Bicuculline-induced effects on phrenic nerve activity were eliminated after C8 spinal cord transection and regular phrenic rhythm resumed indicating that bicuculline was not acting directly on phrenic motoneurons. 5. Bicuculline evoked similar bursting characteristics in both sympathetic and motor nerves attributable to increased excitability of spinal cord neurons. The bursting patterns evoked were often coincident in sympathetic and motor nerves suggesting a common site of origin. 6. These data suggest there is intraspinal coupling between multiple sympathetic and motor outflows in the adult rat spinal cord in vivo. Cervicothoracic spinal cord generator/s perhaps in the form of interneuronal networks, utilizing GABA-A and glutamate receptors, can simultaneously drive functionally independent nerves.




It is widely accepted that neurobiological abnormalities underlie the symptoms of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and unipolar or bipolar affective disorders. New molecular methods, computer-assisted quantification techniques and neurobiological investigation methods that can be applied to the human brain are all used in post-mortem investigations of psychiatric disorders. The following article describes modern quantitative methods and recent post-mortem findings in schizophrenia and affective disorders. Using our brain bank as an example, necessary considerations of modern brain banking are addressed such as ethical considerations, clinical work-up, preparation techniques and the organization of a brain bank, the value of modern brain banking for investigations of psychiatric disorders is summarized.
Neurodegenerative diseases are characterised by a net loss of neurons from specific regions of the central nervous system (CNS). Until recently, research has focused on identifying mechanisms that lead to neurodegeneration, while therapeutic approaches have been primarily targeted to prevent neuronal loss. This has had limited success and marketed pharmaceuticals do not have dramatic benefits. Here we suggest that the future success of therapeutic strategies will depend on consideration and understanding of the role of neurogenesis in the adult CNS. We summarize evidence suggesting that neurogenesis is impaired in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, while it is enhanced in stroke. We review studies where stimulation of neurogenesis is associated with restored function in animal models of these diseases, suggesting that neurogenesis is functionally important. We show that many current therapeutics, developed to block degeneration or to provide symptomatic relief, serendipitously stimulate neurogenesis or, at least, do not interfere with it. Importantly, many receptors, ion channels and ligand-gated channels implicated in neurodegeneration, such as NMDA, AMPA, GABA and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, also play an important role in neurogenesis and regeneration. Therefore, new therapeutics targeted to block degeneration by antagonizing these channels may have limited benefit as they may also block regeneration. Our conclusion is that future drug development must consider neurogenesis. It appears unlikely that drugs being developed to treat neurodegenerative diseases will be beneficial if they impair neurogenesis. And, most tantalizing, therapeutic approaches that stimulate neurogenesis might stimulate repair and even recovery from these devastating diseases.
Among the diverse sets of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), the alpha7 subtype is highly expressed in the hippocampus and cortex and is thought to play important roles in a variety of cognitive processes. In this review, we describe the properties of a novel biaryl diamine alpha7 nAChR agonist, A-582941. A-582941 was found to exhibit high-affinity binding and partial agonism at alpha7 nAChRs, with acceptable pharmacokinetic properties and excellent distribution to the central nervous system (CNS). In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that A-582941 activates signaling pathways known to be involved in cognitive function such as ERK1/2 and CREB phosphorylation. A-582941 enhanced cognitive performance in behavioral models that capture domains of working memory, short-term recognition memory, memory consolidation, and sensory gating deficit. A-582941 exhibited a benign secondary pharmacodynamic and tolerability profile as assessed in a battery of assays of cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and CNS function. The studies summarized in this review collectively provide preclinical validation that alpha7 nAChR agonism offers a mechanism with potential to improve cognitive deficits associated with various neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders.
Ascomycin and FK506 are powerful calcium-dependent serine/threonine protein phosphatase (calcineurin [CaN], protein phosphatase 2B) inhibitors. Their mechanism of action involves the formation of a molecular complex with the intracellular FK506-binding protein-12 (FKBP12), thereby acquiring the ability to interact with CaN and to interfere with the dephosphorylation of various substrates. Pharmacological studies of ascomycin, FK506, and derivatives have mainly been focused on their action as immunosuppressants and therapeutic use in inflammatory skin diseases, both in animal studies and in humans. CaN inhibitors have been also proposed for the treatment of inflammatory and degenerative brain diseases. Preclinical studies suggest, however, that ascomycin and its derivatives exhibit additional pharmacological activities. Ascomycin has been shown to have anticonvulsant activity when perfused into the rat hippocampus via microdialysis probes, and ascomycin derivatives may be useful in preventing ischemic brain damage and neuronal death. Their pharmacological action in the brain may involve CaN-mediated regulation of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate receptor channels, neuronal cytoskeleton and dendritic spine morphology, as well as of the inflammatory responses in glial cells. FK506 and ascomycin inhibit signaling pathways in astrocytes and change the pattern of cytokine and neurotrophin gene expression. However, brain-specific mechanisms of action other than CaN inhibition cannot be excluded. CaN is a likely potential target molecule in the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) diseases, so that the therapeutic potential of ascomycin, FK506, and nonimmunosuppressant ascomycin derivatives as CNS drugs should be further explored.
TPA023 and alpha5IA are structurally related compounds that selectively modulate certain GABA(A) receptor subtypes. Hence, TPA023 has weak partial agonist efficacy at the alpha2 and alpha3 subtypes whereas alpha5IA has inverse agonist efficacy at the alpha5 subtype. These efficacy characteristics translate into novel pharmacological profiles in preclinical species with TPA023 being a nonsedating anxiolytic in rats and primates whereas alpha5IA enhanced cognition in rats but was devoid of the proconvulsant or kindling liabilities associated with nonselective inverse agonists. In vitro and in vivo metabolic studies showed that TPA023 was metabolized via CYP3A4-mediated t-butyl hydroxylation and N-deethylation whereas alpha5IA was metabolized to produce the hydroxymethyl isoxazole, the latter of which was highly insoluble and caused renal toxicity in preclinical species. In humans, TPA023 had a half-life in the region of 6-7 h whereas the half-life of alpha5IA was 2-2.5 h. TPA023 was clearly differentiated from the nonselective agonist lorazepam in terms of saccadic eye movement and unlike lorazepam, it did not impair either postural stability, as judged by body sway, or cognition. The occurrence of the hydroxymethyl isoxazole metabolite of alpha5IA in human urine precluded the use of alpha5IA in prolonged dosing studies. Nevertheless, alpha5IA was evaluated in an alcohol-induced cognitive impairment model in healthy normal volunteers and was found to reverse the memory-impairing effects of alcohol. To date, however, no efficacy data for either TPA023 or alpha5IA in patient populations has been reported, although at the very least, the preclinical and limited clinical data with TPA023 and alpha5IA validate the approach of targeting specific GABA(A) receptors through subtype-selective efficacy.

The debate between Simulation-Theory (ST) and Theory-Theory (TT) provides the dominant theoretical framework for research on &quot;theory of mind&quot; (ToM). Behavioural research has failed to provide clear methods for discriminating between these theories, but a number of recent studies have claimed that neuroimaging methods do allow key predictions of ST and TT to be tested. In the current paper it is argued that neuroimaging studies have not in fact provided any data that discriminates between ST and TT accounts of propositional attitude ascription, and moreover that it is uncertain that they will in the future. However, it is also argued that the fault lies with the ST/TT debate, not with the methods and concepts of neuroimaging research. Neuroimaging can certainly contribute to our understanding of ToM, and should contribute to the project of developing theoretical models more firmly grounded in specific cognitive and neural processes than ST or TT.
Brain images are believed to have a particularly persuasive influence on the public perception of research on cognition. Three experiments are reported showing that presenting brain images with articles summarizing cognitive neuroscience research resulted in higher ratings of scientific reasoning for arguments made in those articles, as compared to articles accompanied by bar graphs, a topographical map of brain activation, or no image. These data lend support to the notion that part of the fascination, and the credibility, of brain imaging research lies in the persuasive power of the actual brain images themselves. We argue that brain images are influential because they provide a physical basis for abstract cognitive processes, appealing to people's affinity for reductionistic explanations of cognitive phenomena.
Microtubules perform a variety of functions which lead to the complex regulation of intracellular transport and cell division. However, the regulation of microtubule growth is not clearly known. Based on a recent experimental finding, we explore the possibility of spatial regulation of microtubule growth by stathmin-tubulin interaction gradients. Computer simulation of the model with stathmin-tubulin interaction gradients gave regulated growth as seen in experiments. In future, the stathmin-tubulin interaction gradients can be made dynamic and its impact on the microtubule growth can be explored.
Reaction time (RT) profiles for comparing magnitudes (e.g., numbers, physical sizes) are similar - the larger the difference between the compared stimuli, the shorter the RT (distance effect). Nevertheless, it is unclear whether such correspondence is due to similar, two-dimensional, linear mental representations of magnitudes. In contrast, pitch perception has a more complex, two-dimensional, helical representation. This study examined whether comparisons of music pitches are similar to other magnitude response functions. Experiment 1 employed a comparison task, resulting in an RT profile identical to that obtained when comparing other magnitudes. In contrast, Experiment 2 employed a discrimination task, resulting in RTs that matched the helical representation and were dissociated from the classical distance effect. Experiment 3 replicated the results of Experiment 1 using a comparison task with different stimuli and intervals. These findings imply that the distance effect under comparison tasks might reflect a general sensorimotor transformation, rather than mental representation per se.
A possible dissociation of duration and numerosity processing was tested in an off-line repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) design. Participants had to compare the numerosity of flashed dot sequences or the duration of single dot displays before and after 15 min of 1 Hz rTMS over one of three sites (the left or right intraparietal sulcus (IPS), or the vertex chosen as a control site). Compared to the control site, performance was only slowed down for the numerosity comparison task after the left IPS stimulation, whereas it was not affected for the duration comparison task for any of the parietal sites. These results show that the parietal area critically involved in numerosity processing is not involved in duration processing, revealing at least one cerebral site where duration and numerosity comparison processes dissociate.
We report a case of a patient, AD, who suffered from acalculia following an infarct restricted to the left IPS (intraparietal sulcus). AD showed deficits in an arithmetic battery and in basic numerical processing tasks. Compared to matched controls, AD showed a larger distance effect in numerical comparisons, an abnormal size congruity indicated by a lack of facilitation by irrelevant numerical values in physical comparisons, a deficiency in counting in comparison tasks, and a deficiency in subitizing in number naming tasks and comparison tasks. This suggests that the underlying deficit in AD is a difficulty in the perception and manipulation of quantity. Moreover, it indicates the essential role of the IPS in basic numerical processing.
In the present study, we recorded the kinematics of grasping movements in order to measure the possible interference caused by digits printed on the visible face of the objects to grasp. The aim of this approach was to test the hypothesis that digit magnitude processing shares common mechanisms with object size estimate during grasping. In the first stages of reaching, grip aperture was found to be larger consequent to the presentation of digits with a high value rather than a low one. The effect of digit magnitude on grip aperture was more pronounced for large objects. As the hand got closer to the object, the influence of digit magnitude decreased and grip aperture progressively reflected the actual size of the object. We concluded that number magnitude may interact with grip aperture while programming the grasping movements.
In this review, we discuss the biology of gamma-secretase, an enigmatic enzyme complex that is responsible for the generation of the amyloid-beta peptide that constitutes the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer's disease. We begin with a brief review on the processing of the amyloid precursor protein and a brief discussion on the family of enzymes involved in regulated intramembrane proteolysis, of which gamma-secretase is a member. We then identify the four major components of the gamma-secretase complex - presenilin, nicastrin, Aph-1, and Pen-2 - with a focus on the identification of each and the role that each plays in the maturation and activity of the complex. We also discuss two new proteins that may play a role in modulating the assembly and activity of the gamma-secretase complex. Next, we summarize the known subcellular locations of each gamma-secretase component and the sites of gamma-secretase activity, as defined by the production of Abeta. Finally, we close by synthesizing all of the included topics into an overarching model for the assembly and trafficking of the gamma-secretase complex, which serves as a launching point for further questions into the biology and function of gamma-secretase in Alzheimer's disease.
One major contribution of neuroscience to understanding cognitive development has been in demonstrating that biology is not destiny-that is, demonstrating the remarkable role of experience in shaping the mind, brain, and body. Only rarely has neuroscience provided wholly new insights into cognitive development, but often it has provided evidence of mechanisms by which observations of developmental psychologists could be explained. Behavioral findings have often remained controversial until an underlying biological mechanism for them was offered. Neuroscience has demonstrated promise for detecting cognitive problems before they are behaviorally observable-and, hence, promise for early intervention. In this article, we discuss examples drawn from imitation and mirror neurons, phenylketonuria (PKU) and prefrontal dopamine, maternal touch and stress reactivity, and non-genetic (behavioral) intergenerational transmission of biological characteristics.
There has been steadily growing interest in the participation of metal ions (especially, zinc, copper, and iron) in neurobiological processes, such as the regulation of synaptic transmission. Recent descriptions of the release of zinc and copper in the cortical glutamatergic synapse, and influencing the response of the NMDA receptor underscore the relevance of understanding the inorganic milieu of the synapse to neuroscience. Additionally, major neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, are characterized by elevated tissue iron, and miscompartmentalization of copper and zinc (e.g. accumulation in amyloid). Increasingly sophisticated medicinal chemistry approaches, which correct these metal abnormalities without causing systemic disturbance of these essential minerals, are being tested. These small molecules show promise of being disease-modifying.


Interval timing in the seconds-to-minutes range is crucial to learning, memory, and decision-making. Recent findings argue for the involvement of cortico-striatal circuits that are optimized by the dopaminergic modulation of oscillatory activity and lateral connectivity at the level of cortico-striatal inputs. Striatal medium spiny neurons are proposed to detect the coincident activity of specific beat patterns of cortical oscillations, thereby permitting the discrimination of supra-second durations based upon the reoccurring patterns of subsecond neural firing. This proposal for the cortico-striatal representation of time is consistent with the observed psychophysical properties of interval timing (e.g. linear time scale and scalar variance) as well as much of the available pharmacological, lesion, patient, electrophysiological, and neuroimaging data from animals and humans (e.g. dopamine-related timing deficits in Huntington's and Parkinson's disease as well as related animal models). The conclusion is that although the striatum serves as a 'core timer', it is part of a distributed timing system involving the coordination of large-scale oscillatory networks.
People are alarmingly susceptible to manipulations that change both their expectations and experience of the value of goods. Recent studies in behavioral economics suggest such variability reflects more than mere caprice. People commonly judge options and prices in relative terms, rather than absolutely, and display strong sensitivity to exemplar and price anchors. We propose that these findings elucidate important principles about reward processing in the brain. In particular, relative valuation may be a natural consequence of adaptive coding of neuronal firing to optimise sensitivity across large ranges of value. Furthermore, the initial apparent arbitrariness of value may reflect the brains' attempts to optimally integrate diverse sources of value-relevant information in the face of perceived uncertainty. Recent findings in neuroscience support both accounts, and implicate regions in the orbitofrontal cortex, striatum, and ventromedial prefrontal cortex in the construction of value.
The ability to share the other's feelings, known as empathy, has recently become the focus of social neuroscience studies. We review converging evidence that empathy with, for example, the pain of another person, activates part of the neural pain network of the empathizer, without first hand pain stimulation to the empathizer's body. The amplitude of empathic brain responses is modulated by the intensity of the displayed emotion, the appraisal of the situation, characteristics of the suffering person such as perceived fairness, and features of the empathizer such as gender or previous experience with pain-inflicting situations. Future studies in the field should address inter-individual differences in empathy, development and plasticity of the empathic brain over the life span, and the link between empathy, compassionate motivation, and prosocial behavior.
Systems neuroscience traditionally conceptualizes a population of spiking neurons as merely encoding the value of a stimulus. Yet, psychophysics has revealed that people take into account stimulus uncertainty when performing sensory or motor computations and do so in a nearly Bayes-optimal way. This suggests that neural populations do not encode just a single value but an entire probability distribution over the stimulus. Several such probabilistic codes have been proposed, including one that utilizes the structure of neural variability to enable simple neural implementations of probabilistic computations such as optimal cue integration. This approach provides a quantitative link between Bayes-optimal behaviors and specific neural operations. It allows for novel ways to evaluate probabilistic codes and for predictions for physiological population recordings.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has quickly become the most prominent tool in cognitive neuroscience. In this article, I outline some of the limits on the kinds of inferences that can be supported by fMRI, focusing particularly on reverse inference, in which the engagement of specific mental processes is inferred from patterns of brain activation. Although this form of inference is weak, newly developed methods from the field of machine learning offer the potential to formalize and strengthen reverse inferences. I conclude by discussing the increasing presence of fMRI results in the popular media and the ethical implications of the increasing predictive power of fMRI.
Why does a clock sometimes appear stopped? Is it possible to perceive the world in slow motion during a car accident? Can action and effect be reversed? Time perception is surprisingly prone to measurable distortions and illusions. The past few years have introduced remarkable progress in identifying and quantifying temporal illusions of duration, temporal order, and simultaneity. For example, perceived durations can be distorted by saccades, by an oddball in a sequence, or by stimulus complexity or magnitude. Temporal order judgments of actions and sensations can be reversed by the exposure to delayed motor consequences, and simultaneity judgments can be manipulated by repeated exposure to nonsimultaneous stimuli. The confederacy of recently discovered illusions points to the underlying neural mechanisms of time perception.
Humans live in highly complex social environments and some of our most important decisions are made in the context of social interactions. Research that probes the neural basis of decision-making in the context of social interactions combines behavioral paradigms from game theory with a variety of methods from neuroscience. The neural correlates of decision making in reciprocal exchange and bargaining games have been probed with functional neuroimaging, transcranial magnetic stimulation, and pharmacological manipulations. These studies have begun to elucidate a set of brain regions and neurotransmitter systems involved in decision-making in social interactions.

The fluorescent dye FM1-43 and its derivatives can be used to monitor the physiology of synaptic vesicle turnover in central nerve terminals. They do so by their ability to reversibly partition into membranes, a process that results in a huge increase in fluorescence in comparison to their quantum yield in solution. This unit provides protocols for quantifying total synaptic vesicle turnover, the kinetics and extent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis, and the kinetics and mode of synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Descriptions of other ways these protocols have been used to derive information about the life cycle of the synaptic vesicle are also provided.
Neuronal cell labeling is fundamental to investigations of the nervous system. Labeling of cells in live or fixed tissue with dyes or ion indicators using ballistic approaches has recently been developed for the study of neuronal architecture and function. In this approach, dye-coated particles are propelled into cells by a pulse of pressurized helium. This unit provides step-by-step protocols for coating tungsten particles with fluorescent or indicator dyes and for delivering these particles into cells and tissue. The major advantage of the ballistic method of dye delivery is that large populations of neurons can be rapidly labeled within a piece of live or fixed tissue. Advantages and limitations of the approach are discussed and technical advice is provided.
While much has been written about the importance of the experience of presence in simulation protocols, the role of &quot;absence&quot; deserves closer attention. The role of subjective experience and neurophysiologic processes involved in fluctuating states of consciousness is a key issue in developing assessment and treatment tools using interactive immersive simulator tasks. This paper proposes that when engaging in an interactive simulator task, there are fluctuations of consciousness that determine both motivational engagement and measured performance. Rather than expecting a continuous experience, both in terms of perceptual and motor output flow, factors such as circadian fluctuations, fatigue, and actual intrusion of sleep into waking consciousness are relevant in assessments and treatments using virtual environment-based tasks. These factors are particularly relevant in treatment populations with neurological and psychiatric disorders, where such disturbances are more common. To illustrate this construct, a series of experiments examining these phenomena in relation to a standardized driving-simulation protocol to detect psychomotor impairment developed for clinical and diagnostic testing in a sleep laboratory setting are reviewed.
Traumatic and non-traumatic coma is a common problem in paediatric practice with high mortality and morbidity. Early recognition of the potential for catastrophic deterioration in a variety of settings is essential and several coma scales have been developed for recording depth of consciousness that are widely used in clinical practice in adults and children. Prediction of outcome is probably less important, as this may be able to be modified by appropriate emergency treatment, and other clinical and neurophysiological criteria allow a greater degree of precision. The scales should be reliable, i.e. with little variation between observers and in test-retest by one observer, since this promotes confidence in the assessments at different time points and by different examiners. This is particularly important when the patient is being assessed by personnel dealing with adults as well as children, discussed on the telephone, handed over at shift change, or transferred between units or hospitals. The British Paediatric Neurology Association has recommended one of the modified child's Glasgow coma scales (CGCS) for use in the UK. This review looks at the recent history of the development of coma scales and the rationale for recommending the CGCS.
Monolayers of astrocytes in culture respond to a scrape wound by orienting towards the wound and extending processes that will repair it. We show here that they also upregulate the expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, laminin, and chondroitin sulfated proteoglycan, that are deposited in astrocytic scars in vivo. We have previously shown that the major functional ECM receptors on astrocytes are dystroglycan (DG) plus integrins alpha1beta1, alpha5beta1, alpha6beta1, and alphavbeta3. Consistent with this, laminin fragments that activate alpha1beta1 integrin, alpha6beta1 integrin, and DG all contribute to attachment. During astrocyte attachment, or process extension, integrins and DG are found at the leading edge of the lammelipodium, though they change in distribution with the extent of attachment and the alpha and beta subunits of DG can be spatially uncoupled. Functionally, inhibitory antibodies to DG and integrin alpha1beta1 or the RGD peptide all inhibit process extension, showing that ligand engagement of integrins and DG contribute to process extension. Astrocytes differentiated from DG or beta1 null ES cells respond very differently to wounding. The former fail to extend process and cell polarization is disrupted partially. However, beta1 null astrocytes not only fail to extend processes perpendicular to the wound, but cell polarization is completely disrupted and cells migrate randomly into the wound. We conclude that integrins are essential for astrocyte polarity.
This review describes the complex and often reciprocal relationship between sleep problems, neurological disorders and/or intellectual disability in children. The causes of Intellectual disability (ID) discussed in this review include those conditions present from or around the time of birth, although it also considers traumatic brain injuries occurring later in development. This review discusses the patterns of sleep difficulty associated with specific disorders and summarizes the assessment and interventions, both behavioural and pharmacological, applicable to children. Many neurological disorders such as epilepsy, narcolepsy and neurorespiratory disorders vary considerably in terms of the degree of co-morbid problems and can present with a spectrum of effects on underlying cognitive or behavioural substrates including sleep function. These conditions are discussed as they provide useful insights into how disordered sleep can impact on cognitive development and behaviour. The review draws both on the literature in these areas and the extensive clinical experience of the authors.


This study was conducted to investigate whether the dose of estradiol (E) administered acutely, or chronic delivery of one dose of E impacts acquisition and subsequent cocaine self-administration in ovariectomized (OVX) female rats. Five groups of female rats were compared: OVX females treated with 0, 1, 2, or 5 microg 17beta-E, 30 min prior to the self-administration session, and OVX rats that received a 1.5mg E pellet (designed to chronically release 25 microg E/day X 60 days) implanted 1 week before cocaine self-administration initiation. Rats were tested in 1h sessions on a FR1 schedule with the dose of cocaine increasing every week (testing occurred 5 day/week; doses: 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5 and 0.75 mg/(kg infusion)). We report that OVX rats treated with 2 microg E acquired self-administration more rapidly than all of the other groups, and animals that received 1 or 2 microg E self-administered significantly more cocaine compared to OVX+vehicle at 0.3 and 0.4 mg/(kg infusion). In contrast, OVX rats given 5 microg E acutely, or chronic E via slow-release pellets did not take more cocaine than the OVX+vehicle group at any time point. Physiological serum concentrations of E were seen with 1 or 2 microg E, but 5 microg E and the E pellet produced supra-physiological concentrations. These results suggest an inverted U-shaped dose-response curve for the effect of E on acquisition of cocaine self-administration.
Amentoflavone crosses the blood-brain barrier in vitro but did not inhibit benzodiazepine binding in vivo suggesting poor brain permeability. This prompted us to examine its brain distribution in mice. After Hypericum perforatum and Gingko biloba extracts its brain concentrations were below the limit of quantification. Levels were consistently detected only after intraperitoneal amentoflavone (10 mg/kg), with mean brain-to-plasma ratio of about 0.02. These concentrations were possibly related to the compound's contribution from residual blood, but in any case are too low to support any interaction with central mechanisms so far tested.
This review aims to present the more recent knowledge on the role of the endocannabinoid system in drug addiction. For a long time, dopamine has been consistently associated with the reinforcing effects of most drugs of abuse but, recently, pharmacological evidence points to the possibility that pharmacological management of the endocannabinoid system might not only block the direct reinforcing effect of cannabis, opioids, nicotine and ethanol, but also prevent the relapse to various drugs of abuse including opioids, cocaine, nicotine, alcohol and amphetamine. Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that the manipulation of the endocannabinoid system through the CB(1) receptor antagonist SR-141716A (rimonabant) might constitute a new therapeutical strategy for treating addiction across different classes of abused drugs.
To screen for new region-specific protein markers we compared the proteome maps of the primary visual and somatosensory areas V1 and S1 in mouse brain using 2-D difference gel electrophoresis (2-D DIGE). Twenty-three protein spots showed a statistically significant difference in expression level between V1 and S1, with 52% appearing more abundantly in V1. Twenty-six proteins were mass spectrometrically identified in 22 spots. To assess the validity of this list of potential areal markers generated by 2-D DIGE, the effective area-specific distribution profile of creatine kinase brain subtype (CKB), a protein with a clearly higher expression level in S1, was monitored with in situ hybridization. The mRNA expression profile of CKB displayed a clear area-specific distribution, which allowed demarcation of S1 and its topographical borders with neighboring neocortical areas. This proteomic study demonstrates the innovative application of 2-D DIGE and MS to select new regional markers for neuroscience research.
The authors show that predispositions to approach and avoid do not consist simply of specific motor patterns but are more abstract functions that produce a desired environmental effect. It has been claimed that evaluating a visual stimulus as positive or negative evokes a specific motor response, extending the arm to negative stimuli, and contracting to positive stimuli. The authors showed that a large congruency effect (participants were faster to approach pleasant and avoid unpleasant stimuli, than to approach unpleasant and avoid pleasant stimuli) could be produced on a novel touchscreen paradigm (Experiment 1), and that the congruency effect could be reversed by spatial (Experiment 2) and nonspatial (Experiment 3) response effects. Thus, involuntary approach and avoid response activations are not fixed, but sensitive to context, and are specifically based on the desired goal.


Developments in the field of neuroscience have created a high level of interest in the subject of adolescent psychosis, particularly in relation to prediction and prevention. As the medical practice of adolescent psychosis and its treatment is characterised by a heterogeneity which is both symptomatic and evolutive, the somewhat poor prognosis of chronic development justifies the research performed: apparent indicators of schizophrenic disorders on the one hand and specific endophenotypes on the other are becoming increasingly important. The significant progresses made on the human genome show that the genetic predetermination in current psychiatric pathologies is complex and subject to moderating effects and there is therefore significant potential for nature-nurture interactions (between the environment and the genes). The road to be followed in researching the phenotypic expression of a psychosis gene is long and winding and is susceptible to many external influences at various levels with different effects. Neurobiological, neurophysiological, neuropsychological and neuroanatomical studies help to identify endophenotypes, which allow researchers to create identifying &quot;markers&quot; along this winding road. The endophenotypes could make it possible to redefine the nosological categories and enhance understanding of the physiopathology of schizophrenia. In a predictive approach, large-scale retrospective and prospective studies make it possible to identify risk factors, which are compatible with the neurodevelopmental hypothesis of schizophrenia. However, the predictive value of such markers or risk indicators is not yet sufficiently developed to offer a reliable early-detection method or possible schizophrenia prevention measures. Nonetheless, new developments show promise against the background of a possible future nosographic revolution, based on a paradigm shift. It is perhaps on the basis of homogeneous endophenotypes in particular that we will be able to understand what protects against, or indeed can trigger, psychosis irrespective of the clinical expression or attempts to isolate the common genetic and biological bases according to homogeneous clinical characteristics, which have to date, proved unsuccessful.

Daily variations in plasma glucose concentrations are controlled by the biological clock, located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Our previous studies indicated an important role for the sympathetic innervation of the liver in the generation of the daily glucose rhythm. In the present study, we investigated further the role of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) in the genesis of the plasma glucose rhythm. First, we showed that complete removal of the autonomic inputs to the liver did not impair the plasma glucose rhythm or the daily expression of the glucoregulatory enzymes in the liver. Consequently, we studied whether the daily glucose rhythm is driven by the daily feeding activity in denervated animals. Surprisingly, complete denervation combined with a noncircadian feeding schedule also did not abolish the 24-h profile in plasma glucose or all daily rhythms in the gene expression of liver enzymes. These results demonstrate that the mechanisms used by the suprachiasmatic nucleus to control the rhythmic expression of glucose-metabolizing enzymes and the 24-h rhythm in plasma glucose concentrations are highly versatile and the glucose rhythm can be maintained in absence of hepatic ANS input and/or a day/night rhythm in feeding activity. Interestingly, a hepatic sympathectomy or parasympathectomy did abolish the plasma glucose rhythm, demonstrating that a unilateral denervation of the liver is more deleterious to maintaining the rhythmic liver metabolism than a complete removal of both branches. This observation supports the notion that an unbalanced ANS in obesity and diabetes accounts for the disturbed glucose balance in these disorders.
Two known types of leptin-responsive neurons reside within the arcuate nucleus: the agouti gene-related peptide (AgRP)/neuropeptide Y (NPY) neuron and the proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neuron. By deleting the leptin receptor gene (Lepr) specifically in AgRP/NPY and/or POMC neurons of mice, we examined the several and combined contributions of these neurons to leptin action. Body weight and adiposity were increased by Lepr deletion from AgRP and POMC neurons individually, and simultaneous deletion in both neurons (A+P LEPR-KO mice) further increased these measures. Young (periweaning) A+P LEPR-KO mice exhibit hyperphagia and decreased energy expenditure, with increased weight gain, oxidative sparing of triglycerides, and increased fat accumulation. Interestingly, however, many of these abnormalities were attenuated in adult animals, and high doses of leptin partially suppress food intake in the A+P LEPR-KO mice. Although mildly hyperinsulinemic, the A+P LEPR-KO mice displayed normal glucose tolerance and fertility. Thus, AgRP/NPY and POMC neurons each play mandatory roles in aspects of leptin-regulated energy homeostasis, high leptin levels in adult mice mitigate the importance of leptin-responsiveness in these neurons for components of energy balance, suggesting the presence of other leptin-regulated pathways that partially compensate for the lack of leptin action on the POMC and AgRP/NPY neurons.


Unverricht-Lundborg disease (EPM1) is an autosomal recessively inherited neurodegenerative disorder and the most common single cause of progressive myoclonus epilepsy worldwide. Mutations in the gene encoding cystatin B (CSTB), a cysteine protease inhibitor, are responsible for the primary defect underlying EPM1. Here, progress toward understanding the molecular mechanisms in EPM1 is reviewed. We summarize the current knowledge about the CSTB gene and mutations as well as the cellular biology of the CSTB protein with emphasis on data emerging from analysis of EPM1 patients. We shed light on the disease mechanisms of EPM1 based on characterization of the CSTB-deficient mouse model.
The neuroprotective effects of pentoxifylline (PTX) against lithium-pilocarpine (Li-Pc)-induced status epilepticus (SE) in young rats are described. Animals treated with PTX (0, 20, 40, and 60 mg/kg) before induction of SE were examined for latency to and frequency of SE, behavioral changes, oxidative stress, neurochemical alterations in the hippocampus and striatum, and histological abnormalities in the hippocampus. Treatment with PTX significantly ameliorated the frequency and severity of epileptic seizures in a dose-dependent manner. Our behavioral studies using the elevated plus-maze, rotarod, and water maze tests suggested a significant reduction in anxiety, enhanced motor performance, and improved learning and memory in PTX-treated rats. Li-Pc-induced neuronal cell loss and sprouting of mossy fibers in the hippocampus were also attenuated by PTX. The neuroprotective activity of PTX was accompanied by reduction in oxidative stress and reversal of SE-induced depletion of dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine in hippocampus and striatum. The results of this study provide a good rationale to explore the prophylactic/therapeutic potential of PTX in SE.

Evidence suggests that sex differences in response to cocaine administration may be regulated by activation of progesterone and estrogen receptors. To test this hypothesis, rats were pretreated with either RU 486 (progesterone antagonist; 0, 3, or 25 mg/kg), tamoxifen (estrogen antagonist; 0, 1, or 3 mg/kg), or vehicle followed by saline or cocaine administration (15 mg/kg). Although RU 486 did not affect cocaine-induced locomotor activity in female rats, it dose-dependently decreased such activity in males (3 mg/kg significantly attenuated locomotor responses in cocaine-treated rats as compared with vehicle treatment or 25 mg/kg of RU 486). RU 486 also affected baseline serum levels of corticosterone. Males treated with 3 mg/kg of RU 486 plus cocaine had higher progesterone and corticosterone serum levels than vehicle-treated groups. In females, both doses (3 and 25 mg/kg) of RU 486 significantly attenuated corticosterone serum levels compared with vehicle treatment. For both sexes overall, tamoxifen neither significantly influenced cocaine-induced ambulatory and rearing responses nor altered cocaine-induced progesterone and corticosterone serum levels. Taken together, our results suggest that progesterone receptors have a sexually dimorphic role in cocaine-induced effects, but estrogen receptors have only a limited role. Moreover, both receptor antagonists modulate neurochemical responses differentially.
The rates of high blood pressure among African Americans, as a group, are the highest in the world. The implications for higher average blood pressure include complications for many major chronic conditions, such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Less well studied is the effect of blood pressure on the cognitive functioning of African Americans. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of blood pressure on memory measures in a sample of adult African Americans. Analyses were conducted on a sample of 361 African American adults (mean age 61.50 years, standard deviation 9.39 years). We found significant correlations between systolic blood pressure and most cognitive measures but only for one of the measures and diastolic blood pressure. Regressions revealed significant effects for systolic blood pressure on Digit Symbol, Telephone Interview of Cognitive Status, and Immediate Recall on the Wechsler Logical Memory test. These findings suggest that blood pressure is a source of individual variability in cognitive aging among African Americans.
We have developed a simple yet effective apparatus, based upon negative pressure directed to the tip of a micro-pipette, to measure the adhesiveness of single cells. The &quot;single cell adhesion measuring apparatus&quot; (SCAMA) could differentiate between the adhesion of strongly versus weakly metastatic cancer cells as well as normal cells. Adhesion was quantified as &quot;detachment negative pressure&quot; (DNP) or &quot;DNP relative to cell size&quot; (DNPR) where a noticeable difference in cell size was apparent. Thus, for rat and human prostate and human breast cancer cell lines, adhesiveness (DNPR values) decreased in line with increased metastatic potential. Using the SCAMA, we investigated the effect of tetrodotoxin (TTX), a specific blocker of voltage-gated Na(+) channels (VGSCs), on the adhesion of rat and human prostate cancer cell lines of markedly different metastatic potential. Following pretreatment with TTX (48 h with 1 microM), the adhesion values for the Mat-LyLu cells increased significantly 4.3-fold; there was no effect on the AT-2 cells. For the strongly metastatic PC-3M cells, TTX treatment caused a significant (approximately 30%) increase in adhesion. The adhesion of PNT2-C2 (&quot;normal&quot;) cells was not affected by the TTX pretreatment. The TTX-induced increase in the adhesiveness of the strongly metastatic cells was consistent with the functional VGSC expression in these cells and the proposed role of VGSC activity in metastatic cell behaviour. In conclusion, the SCAMA, which can be constructed easily and cheaply, offers a simple and effective method to characterise single-cell adhesion and its modulation.
Light microscopy (LM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) aim at understanding the relationship structure-function. With advances in biology, isolation and purification of scarce populations of cells or subcellular structures may not lead to enough biological material, for processing for LM and TEM. A protocol for preparation of scarce biological samples is presented. It is based on pre-embedding the biological samples, suspensions or pellets, in bovine serum albumin (BSA) and bis-acrylamide (BA), cross-linked and polymerized. This preparation provides a simple and reproducible technique to process biological materials, present in limited quantities that can not be amplified, for light and transmission electron microscopy.
Slowing or aborting the progress of neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD) remains the most important unmet need of this disorder. There are several recent developments in trial design and also in drugs under investigation for possible neuroprotective effect. Emphasis has been placed on clinical as opposed to imaging end-points and these include change in a clinical rating scale, e.g. United Parkinson's disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), or time to additional therapy. The introduction of the delayed-start, or wash-in, trial design adds an additional dimension to drug evaluation for neuroprotection. Compounds that have been recently tested in clinical trial include the monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor rasagiline, the anti-apoptotic agents TCH346 and CEP1347, and the promitochondrial agent creatine. The dopamine agonists have been evaluated for a neuroprotective effect using imaging end-points. Perhaps the most important and simplest concept for neuroprotection has been the theory that early dopaminergic support for the degenerating dopaminergic system per se provides significant long-term clinical benefit for PD patients.

Two patients with severe Parkinson's disease undergoing partial or complete ablative interruption of basal ganglia (BG) output are presented. One patient who underwent bilateral subthalamotomy, and a second who underwent unilateral posteroventral pallidotomy, followed 7 years later by a bilateral subthalamotomy because of contralateral disease progression, were studied. In addition to the usual clinical evaluation, changes in joint kinematics observed during unconstrained, skilled multi-joint movement and repetitive single joint (RSJ) movement of the wrist were studied. Clinical UPDRS items referred to hand movements contralateral to the procedure, and instrumental measurement of RSJ improved in both patients after either pallidotomy or subthalamotomy. When both BG outflow paths were interrupted as was the case in the second patient (bilateral subthalamotomy after the initial pallidotomy), no added clinical improvement was observed, RSJ even deteriorated slightly. Instrument-based studies for movement alteration detection after simultaneous ablation of the globus pallidus and the subthalamic nucleus of these two patients showed greater sensitivity than clinical evaluation alone. Complex gestural movement performance remained unaffected after partial (subthalamotomy or pallidotomy) or complete interruption of BG outflow (case 2), indicating BG compensatory capacity after total outflow interruption remained intact.
Inflammation plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of atherothrombosis. Our aim was to examine the association between plasma concentrations of inflammatory biomarkers and severity and outcome of acute brain ischaemia. Plasma samples were collected within 36 h of symptom onset in patients with acute brain ischaemia, and assessed by conventional ELISA kits for concentration of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1). Patients were assessed serially for stroke severity (National Institute of Health stroke scale) and outcome during follow-up (modified Rankin Scale, mRS; and Stroke Impact Scale-16, SIS). Patients (n = 113, 65% men, mean age 64 +/- 12 years) had a mean IL-6 concentrations of 5.1 +/- 5.0 pg/ml and sICAM-1 of 377 +/- 145 ng/ml. IL-6, but not sICAM-1, concentrations were strongly associated with stroke severity (P &lt; 0.01 at all serial assessments). Ln-transformed IL-6 levels (per 1 SD) were associated with disability (mRS &gt; or = 2, OR = 1.7; 95% CI 1.1-3.0) and poor physical function (SIS &lt; or = 85, OR = 1.7; 95% CI 1.0-2.8). Further adjustment for baseline stroke severity, however, eliminated these associations. Our results suggest that high plasma concentrations of the inflammatory biomarker IL-6 but not sICAM-1 are associated with stroke severity and poorer functional outcome. IL-6 does not add, however, additional prognostic information for stroke outcome beyond that conveyed by the stroke severity.
Uric acid (UA), a product of purine metabolism, may be an antioxidant, perhaps acting as a scavenger of peroxynitrite. Patients with gout have a reduced incidence of multiple sclerosis (MS). A number of studies found that patients with MS have low serum levels of UA, although it has not been established whether this represents a primary deficit or a secondary effect. UA has also been proposed as a marker of disease activity and response to immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory treatment. We retrospectively reviewed 83 relapsing-remitting or secondary progressive MS patients (64 females and 19 males) followed in our Neurology Unit. We collected data concerning demographic variables as age and sex, and clinical variables as age of onset, clinical type, disease duration, EDSS score and total number of relapses. We considered UA levels in three different situations: during a relapse, during remission period and during remission period under immunomodulatory treatment [Interferon Beta 1a i.m. (Avonex; Biogen Idec Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA), Interferon Beta 1a s.c. (Rebif; Serono Europe Limited, London, UK), Interferon Beta 1b (Betaferon; Bayer Schering Pharma AG, Berlin, Germany) or Glatiramer Acetate (Copaxone; TEVA Neuroscience LLC, Kansas City, MO, USA)]. A Wilcoxon matched pairs test was carried out to determine differences between groups. A P-value less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant. In 33 patients, we were able to compare at least one UA value obtained during a relapse with at least one when remission without treatment. Mean serum UA levels were significantly lower when measured during a relapse (r: 0.39, P: 0.024). In 27 cases, we compared at least one remission value without treatment with at least one obtained during remission and immunomodulatory treatment. Mean serum UA levels significantly increased when determined during Interferon Beta or Glatiramer Acetate therapy (r: 0.84, P &lt; 0.001). Although we do not know exactly whether and how UA is involved in MS pathogenesis, our data suggest that UA might reflect disease activity or treatment response in MS.
The objective of the present study was to explore the clinical efficacy and tolerability of GW406381, a cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor with relatively high CNS penetration, in acute migraine. This was a double-blind, single-dose study of GW406381 compared with placebo and naproxen sodium compared with placebo (protocol number CXA20008). Three hundred and thirty-seven subjects were randomized 1:1:1 to GW406381 (70 mg), naproxen sodium (825 mg), or placebo for the treatment of one migraine headache of moderate or severe intensity in a potential 8-week period. The primary end-point was the proportion of subjects with headache relief [reduction in headache severity score from pre-dose 2 (moderate) or 3 (severe) to 0 (no pain) or 1 (mild)] at 2 h post-dose for GW406381 compared with placebo. Significantly higher proportions of subjects treated with GW406381 (50%, P = 0.032) or naproxen sodium (56%, P = 0.005) than with placebo (35%) reported headache relief at 2 h post-dose. Additional significant benefits were observed on many secondary outcomes, including proportions of subjects pain-free, for both GW406381 and naproxen sodium treatment compared with placebo. Both active treatments were well tolerated. Single-dose GW406381 (70 mg) and naproxen sodium (825 mg) were effective and well tolerated in the treatment of acute migraine.
We report clinical, molecular, neuroimaging and neuropathological features of a Danish family with autosomal dominant inherited dementia, a clinical phenotype resembling Alzheimer's disease and a pathogenic mutation (R406W) in the microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT) gene. Pre-symptomatic and affected family members underwent multidisciplinary (clinical, molecular, neuroimaging and neuropathological) examinations. Treatment with memantine in a family member with early symptoms, based on the clinical phenotype and the lack of specific treatment, appears to stabilize the disease course and increase the glucose metabolism in cortical and subcortical areas, as determined by serial [F(18)]FDG-PET scanning before and after initiation of treatment. Neuropathological examination of a second affected and mutation-positive family member showed moderate atrophy of the temporal lobes including the hippocampi. Microscopy revealed abundant numbers of tau-positive neurofibrillary tangles in all cortical areas and in some brainstem nuclei corresponding to a diagnosis of frontotemporal lobe degeneration on the basis of a MAPT mutation. The clinical and genetic heterogeneity of autosomal dominant inherited dementia must be taken into account in the genetic counselling and genetic testing of families with autosomal dominantly inherited dementia in general.
A previous study in subjects with focal dystonia suggested that the greater and longer-lasting effect induced by botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) on the tonic vibration reflex (TVR) than on the maximal M-wave (M-max) might be the physiological marker of the toxin's action at the level of intrafusal muscle fibres. With this approach, we investigated the possible effect of BoNT-A on fusimotor synapses in eight patients with post-stroke spasticity (four with no residual motor capacity before treatment and four with partially spared muscle strength and residual motor capacity). TVR and M-max were recorded from the wrist and finger flexor muscles before treatment and at 1, 4 and 7 months afterwards. The TVR reduction was greater than the M-max reduction and remained fairly constant over time only in the subjects with a residual motor capacity before the treatment. This pilot study suggests that some degree of strength and active movement is necessary for the action of BoNT-A on intrafusal fibres.
This series of experiments represents a test of a theory concerning the etiology of age-related cognitive decline, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The theory suggests that multiple combinations of cofactors produce variants of these disorders. Two factors that have been linked to the etiology of AD, that are of interest to our laboratories, are stress and vascular strokes. The current experiments tested the cofactors theory by evaluating the neuronal and functional effects of localized subthreshold strokes in the hippocampus of different groups of rats. One group experienced episodes of stress prior to stroke induction while the other did not. The results showed that a low dose of endothelin-1 (ET-1) injected into the hippocampus of groups of rats that had previously experienced stressful episodes showed enhanced hippocampal cell death and neurodegeneration that did not occur in the rats that did not experience stress prior to stroke induction. The results also showed that the stressed rats given subthreshold ET-1 injections into the hippocampus showed hippocampal-based learning and memory deficits that were not present in the non-stressed group given the same injections. This pattern of results suggests that individuals that are under stress are more vulnerable to insults to the hippocampus that have little effect on an individual that is not stressed. This vulnerability might be due to the actions of stress hormones, like the glucocorticoids, that have been previously shown to endanger hippocampal neurons.
People with epilepsy have a high incidence of interictal behavioural problems that appear to be related to the location of their seizure focus. This study investigated a novel test of the hypotheses that repeated seizures result in behavioural deficits and altered performance during the interictal state, and that those behaviours are related to the presence of more highly efficacious excitatory synapses. We tested these hypotheses by first repeatedly eliciting seizures with electric current through indwelling electrodes in the corpus callosum at the level of the caudal forelimb area of sensorimotor neocortex in the rat. We then assessed learned skilled behaviours that primarily utilize the forelimbs on tasks that are sensitive to the functional integrity of that structure. We observed both behavioural deficits and altered kinematic performance in rats that experienced repeated neocortical seizures relative to an electrode-implanted control group. From a separate set of rats, tissue was prepared for quantification of thickness and excitatory synaptic subtypes from neocortical layer V. We observed significantly increased numbers of perforated synapses that make their connections directly onto the dendritic shaft at 3 weeks following the last seizure. Altered reaching behaviours are likely due to neural reorganization in the neocortex including more efficacious synapses.
The causes of most cases of Parkinson's disease (PD) are still poorly understood. Here we show that chronic stress and elevated corticosterone levels exaggerate motor deficits and neurodegenerative events in a Parkinson's disease rat model. Animals were tested in skilled and non-skilled movement while being exposed to daily restraint stress or oral corticosterone treatment. Stress and corticosterone compromised normal motor function and exaggerated motor deficits caused by unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal bundle. Moreover, stress and corticosterone treatments diminished the ability to acquire compensatory strategies in limb use during skilled reaching and skilled walking. In contrast, lesion control animals were able to significantly improve in the ability of skilled limb use during the repeated test sessions. The exaggerated motor impairments in stress-treated animals were related to accelerated loss of midbrain dopamine-producing neurons during the first week postlesion. Correlation analysis revealed a significant connection between loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells and increase in Fluoro-Jade-positive cells only in stress- and corticosterone-treated animals. Furthermore, stress and elevated corticosterone levels caused greater permanent loss of midbrain neurons than found in non-treated lesion animals. These findings demonstrate that stress and elevated corticosterone levels can exaggerate nigral neuronal loss and motor symptoms in a rat analogue of PD. It is therefore possible that stress represents a key factor in the pathogenesis of human PD by impeding functional and structural compensation and exaggerating neurodegenerative processes.
The neuroprotective effect of neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor activation was investigated in organotypic mouse hippocampal slice cultures exposed to the glutamate receptor agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA). Exposure of 2-week-old slice cultures, derived from 7-day-old C57BL/6 mice, to 8 microm AMPA, for 24 h, induced degeneration of CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells, as measured by cellular uptake of propidium iodide (PI). A significant neuroprotection, with a reduction of PI uptake in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cell layers, was observed after incubation with a Y(2) receptor agonist [NPY(13-36), 300 nm]. This effect was sensitive to the presence of the selective Y(2) receptor antagonist (BIIE0246, 1 microm), but was not affected by addition of TrkB-Fc or by a neutralizing antibody against brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Moreover, addition of a Y(1) receptor antagonist (BIBP3226, 1 microm) or a NPY-neutralizing antibody helped to disclose a neuroprotective role of endogenous NPY in CA1 region. Cultures exposed to 8 microm AMPA for 24 h, displayed, as measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, a significant increase in BDNF. In such cultures there was an up-regulation of neuronal TrkB immunoreactivity, as well as the presence of BDNF-immunoreactive microglial cells at sites of injury. Thus, an increase of AMPA-receptor mediated neurodegeneration, in the mouse hippocampus, was prevented by neuroprotective pathways activated by NPY receptors (Y(1) and Y(2)), which can be affected by BDNF released by microglia and neurons.
Neural information is conveyed by action potentials along axons to downstream synaptic targets. Synapses permit functionally relevant modulation of the information transmitted by converging inputs. Previous studies have measured the amount of information associated with a given stimulus based either on spike counts or on the relative frequencies of spike sequences represented as binary strings. Here we apply information theory to the phase-interval stimulus histogram (PhISH) to measure the extent of the stimulus-evoked response using the statistical relationship between each interspike interval and its phase within the stimulus cycle. We used the PhISH as a novel approach to investigate how different osmotic states affect the flow of information through the osmoreceptor complex of the hypothalamus. The amount of information conveyed from one (afferent) element of the complex, the anteroventral region of the third ventricle (AV3V), to another (an efferent element), the supraoptic nucleus, was increased by hypertonic stimulation (intravenous mannitol, z = 4.39, P &lt; 0.001) and decreased by hypotonic stimulation (intragastric water, z = -3.37, P &lt; 0.001). Supraoptic responses to AV3V stimulation differed from those that follow stimulation of a hypothalamic element outside the osmoreceptor complex, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which also projects to the supraoptic nucleus. Thus osmosensitive gain control mechanisms differentially modulate osmotically dependent and osmotically independent inputs, and enhance the osmoresponsiveness of supraoptic cells within a physiological range. The value of the novel approach is that its use is not limited to the osmoreceptor ensemble but it can be used to investigate the flow of information throughout the central nervous system.
Anatomical evidence suggests that the ventromedial arcuate nucleus (vmARC) is a route for circulating hormonal communications to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Whether this vmARC-SCN connection is involved in the modulation of circadian activity of the SCN is not yet known. We recently demonstrated, in rats, that intravenous (i.v.) injection of a ghrelin mimetic, GHRP-6, during the daytime activated neurons in the vmARC and reduced the normal endogenous daytime Fos expression in the SCN. In the present study we show that i.v. administration of GHRP-6 decreases light-induced Fos expression at ZT13 in the rat SCN by 50%, indicating that light-induced changes in the SCN Fos expression can also be reduced by GHRP-6. Because it is difficult to study light-induced phase changes in rats, we examined the functional effects of GHRP-6 on light-induced phase shifts in mice and demonstrated that peripherally injected GHRP-6 attenuates light-induced phase delays at ZT13 by 45%. However, light-induced Fos expression in the mice SCN was not blocked by GHRP-6. These results illustrate that acute stimulation of the ghrelinergic system may modulate SCN activity, but that its effect on light-induced phase shifts and Fos expression in the SCN might be species related.
The feedback-related negativity (FRN) has been hypothesized to be linked to reward-based learning. While many studies have shown that the FRN only occurs in response to unexpected negative outcomes, the relationship between the magnitude of negative prediction errors and FRN amplitude remains a matter of debate. The present study aimed to elucidate this relationship with a new behavioural procedure that allowed subjects to predict precise reward probabilities by learning an explicit rule. Insight into the rule did not only influence subjects' choice behaviour, but also outcome-related event-related potentials. After subjects had learned the rule, the FRN amplitude difference between non-reward and reward mirrored the magnitude of the negative prediction error, i.e. it was larger for less likely negative outcomes. Source analysis linked this effect to the anterior cingulate cortex. P300 amplitude was also modulated by outcome valence and expectancy. It was larger for positive and unexpected outcomes. It remains to be clarified, however, whether the P300 reflects a positive prediction error.
Conditions of increased cognitive or emotional demand activate dopamine release in a regionally selective manner. Whereas the brief millisecond response of dopamine neurons to salient stimuli suggests that dopamine's influence on behaviour may be limited to signalling certain cues, the prolonged availability of dopamine in regions such as the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens is consistent with the well described role of dopamine in maintaining motivation states, associative learning and working memory. The behaviourally elicited terminal release of dopamine is generally attributed to increased excitatory drive on dopamine neurons. Our findings here, however, indicate that this increase may involve active removal of a tonic inhibitory control on dopamine neurons exerted by the lateral habenula (LHb). Inhibition of LHb in behaving animals transiently increased dopamine release in the prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens and dorsolateral striatum. The inhibitory influence was more pronounced in the nucleus accumbens and striatum than in the prefrontal cortex. This pattern of regional dopamine activation after LHb inhibition mimicked conditions of reward availability but not increased cognitive demand. Electrical or chemical stimulation of LHb produced minimal reduction of extracellular dopamine, suggesting that in an awake brain the inhibition associated with tonic LHb activity represents a near-maximal influence on dopamine neurotransmission. These data indicate that LHb may be critical for functional differences in dopamine neurons by preferentially modulating dopamine neurons that project to the nucleus accumbens over those neurons that primarily project to the prefrontal cortex.
Neurodegenerative diseases involving neurofibrillary tangle pathology are pernicious. By expressing the microtubule-associated protein tau, a major component of tangles, with a viral vector, we induce neuropathological sequelae in rats that are similar to those seen in human tauopathies. We tested several variants of the adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector for tau expression in the nigrostriatal system in order to develop models with graded onset and completeness. Whereas previous studies with AAV2 tau vectors produced partial lesions of the nigrostriatal system, AAV9 or AAV10 tau vectors were more robust. These vectors had formidable efficacy relative to 6-hydroxydopamine for dopamine loss in the striatum. Time-courses for tau transgene expression, dopamine loss and rotational behavior tracked the disease progression with the AAV9 tau vector. There was a nearly complete lesion over a delayed time-course relative to 6-hydroxydopamine, with a sequence of tau expression by 1 week, dopamine loss by 2 weeks and then behavior effect by 3-4 weeks. Relative to AAV2 or AAV8, tau expression from AAV9 or AAV10 peaked earlier and caused more dopamine loss. Varying vector efficiencies produced graded states of disease up to nearly complete. The disease models stemming from the AAV variants AAV9 or AAV10 may be useful for rapid drug screening, particularly for tau diseases that affect the nigrostriatal system, such as progressive supranuclear palsy.
The gaseous neurotransmitter nitric oxide plays an important role in the modulation of corticostriatal synaptic transmission. This study examined the impact of frontal cortex stimulation on striatal nitric oxide efflux and neuron activity in urethane-anesthetized rats using amperometric microsensor and single-unit extracellular recordings, respectively. Systemic administration of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor 7-nitroindazole decreased spontaneous spike activity without affecting activity evoked by single-pulse stimulation of the ipsilateral cortex. Train (30 Hz) stimulation of the contralateral frontal cortex transiently increased nitric oxide efflux in a robust and reproducible manner. Evoked nitric oxide efflux was attenuated by systemic administration of 7-nitroindazole and the non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. Train stimulation of the contralateral cortex, in a manner identical to that used to evoke nitric oxide efflux, had variable effects on spike activity assessed during the train stimulation trial, but induced a short-term depression of cortically evoked activity in the first post-train stimulation trial. Interestingly, 7-nitroindazole potently decreased cortically evoked activity recorded during the train stimulation trial. Moreover, the short-term depression of spike activity induced by train stimulation was enhanced following pretreatment with 7-nitroindazole and attenuated after systemic administration of the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride. These results demonstrate that robust activation of frontal cortical afferents in the intact animal activates a powerful nitric oxide-mediated feed-forward excitation which partially offsets concurrent D2 receptor-mediated short-term inhibitory influences on striatal neuron activity. Thus, nitric oxide signaling is likely to play an important role in the integration of corticostriatal sensorimotor information in striatal networks.
A number of behavioral studies have emphasized the importance of interactions between the pontine-wave (P-wave) generator and the dorsal hippocampus (DH) in two-way active avoidance (TWAA) memory processing; however, the direct involvement of the P-wave generator in the TWAA training trial-induced molecular events in the DH and amygdala has not been systematically evaluated. Here we demonstrate that the TWAA learning training trials activate P-wave generator, and increase phosphorylation of CREB (pCREB) and expression of activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated (Arc) protein, as well as messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNAs) of Arc, brain-derived nerve growth factor (BDNF) and early growth response-1 (Egr-1) in the DH and amygdala. Selective elimination of P-wave-generating cells abolished P-wave activity and suppressed TWAA learning training trial-induced expression of pCREB and Arc proteins and Arc, BDNF and Egr-1 mRNAs in the DH and amygdala. Following a session of TWAA training, all rats were equal in terms of time spent in wakefulness, slow-wave sleep and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep irrespective of P-wave lesions. The second set of experiments demonstrated that localized cholinergic stimulation of the P-wave generator increased expression of Arc, BDNF and Egr-1 mRNAs in the DH. Together, these findings provide the first direct evidence that activation of P-wave-generating cells is critically involved in the TWAA training trial-induced expression of plasticity-related genes in the DH and amygdala. These findings are discussed in relation to the role of P-wave generator activation for the REM sleep-dependent development and cognitive functions of the brain.
Melanopsin-expressing intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) innervate the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the olivary pretectal nucleus (OPN), providing irradiance information for entrainment of circadian rhythms and for stimulating the pupillary light reflex. In this study, mice were used in which the melanopsin gene was replaced with the tau-lacZ gene. Heterozygous (tau-lacZ+/-) mice express both melanopsin and beta-galactosidase. In tau-lacZ+/- mice, only approximately 50% of melanopsin ipRGCs contain beta-galactosidase, and these cells are specifically labeled with a C-terminus melanopsin antibody. Retrograde tracer injection into the SCN labels beta-galactosidase-expressing ipRGCs (termed M1) that comprise approximately 80% of the SCN-projecting ipRGCs. M1 ipRGCs and an additional set of ipRGCs (termed M2) are labeled with a melanopsin antiserum targeted against the N-terminus of the melanopsin protein; M2 ipRGCs do not contain detectable beta-galactosidase, and these cells make up the remainder of the SCN-projecting RGCs. Tracer injection into the OPN labeled non-melanopsin RGCs and both types of melanopsin ipRGC: 45% M1 and 55% M2. Infection of the iris with pseudorabies virus (PRV) results in retrograde transneuronal label of OPN projection neurons that innervate preganglionic parasympathetic neurons of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus; PRV-labeled cells were located almost exclusively within the terminal field of M1 ipRGCs in the periphery (shell) of the OPN. The OPN core receives retinal input, and we hypothesize that the OPN core receives input from the M2 ipRGCs. Two subtypes of melanopsin ipRGCs project differentially to the SCN and OPN; the functional significance of ipRGCs subtypes is currently unknown.
Monozygotic and same-sex dizygotic twin pairs discordant for schizophrenia were compared with matched control twin pairs in order to disentangle genetic and environmental contributions to variation in hypothalamus volume. A decrease in hypothalamus volume was found in patients or discordant twin pairs compared to healthy controls which could be attributed to the decrease in total brain volume. Higher within-twin pair similarities in monozygotic compared to dizygotic twin pairs, suggests that hypothalamus volume might be partly genetically controlled.
According to the aim of the Treaty of Rome from 1957 which postulated the free movement of workers throughout the European Union, the European Board of Psychiatry in the UEMS (European Union of Medical Specialists) carried out a comprehensive survey of training in psychiatry, including all member countries in order to evaluate the present state of training in psychiatry in each. The survey should indicate whether the training requirements [UEMS Section Psychiatry. Charter on training of medical specialists in the EU: requirements for the speciality psychiatry. European Archives of Psychiatry and Clinical Neuroscience 1997;247(Suppl.):S45-7; UEMS Section Psychiatry. Charter on training of medical specialists in the EU: requirements for the speciality psychiatry. &lt;www.uemspsychiatry.org/board/reports/Chapter6-11.10.03.pdf&gt;; 2003 [last revision]] have had an impact on the actual conditions of training in psychiatry in the member countries. We gathered 22 questionnaires from 31 national representatives involved and 424 questionnaires completed by the chief of training and the representative of trainees at the responding training centres from 22 countries. The results give an overview about the practice of training in psychiatry in many European countries. While there are great differences between the training centres in different countries, apparent progress towards developing high standards in training in psychiatry has been made.
In myelinated nerve fibers, action potential initiation and propagation requires that voltage-gated ion channels be clustered at high density in the axon initial segments and nodes of Ranvier. The molecular organization of these subdomains depends on specialized cytoskeletal and scaffolding proteins such as spectrins, ankyrins, and 4.1 proteins. These cytoskeletal proteins are considered to be important for 1) formation, localization, and maintenance of specific integral membrane protein complexes, 2) a barrier restricting the diffusion of both cytoplasmic and membrane proteins to distinct regions or compartments of the cell, and 3) stabilization of axonal membrane integrity. Increased insights into the role of the cytoskeleton could provide important clues about the pathophysiology of various neurological disorders.
Disorders of self-awareness are common following cortical damage, particularly to the frontal lobes, but there have been few studies of individual differences in self-awareness in the normal population. In the current study, we explored patterns of metacognitive awareness among healthy young adults, based on discrepancies of self- and other-ratings on the Frontal Systems Behavior Scale (FrSBe; Grace and Malloy, 2002). Those who showed poor metacognitive awareness showed more frequent lapses of attention, and higher levels of everyday absentmindedness, than those who accurately appraised their own behavior or those who overestimated their own FrSBe scores. Furthermore, among those with poor metacognitive awareness, online emergent awareness correlated positively with prospective memory performance, and negatively with anxiety scores. Our results suggest that accurate self-awareness in non-neurological participants relies on efficient sustained attention functioning, supporting the role of frontal control systems in neuroanatomical models of self-awareness.
This study has focused on how sensory stimulation affects gait in Parkinson's disease (PD). The kinematic parameters of gait [cadence, step amplitude, velocity, coefficient of variation of stride time (CV(stride-time)), and the coefficient of variation of the step amplitude (CV(step-amplitude))] were analysed in 25 PD patients and 10 control subjects. Step amplitude, velocity and CV(stride-time) were altered in the patients with PD. However, when kinematic parameters were analysed as a function of disease severity, none of the parameters differed between early PD (I-II Hoehn and Yahr) and the controls. Nevertheless, more severely affected PD patients (III-IV Hoehn and Yahr) walked with a reduced step amplitude, lower velocity, higher CV(stride-time), and higher CV(step-amplitude) than the controls. The administration of auditory stimulation at a frequency matching the preferred walking cadence led to a decrease in the CV(stride-time) in PD(III-IV) patients, and to an increase in step amplitude in PD(III-IV )and controls. Visual stimulation at the same frequency did not modify any of the altered kinematic parameters in PD(III-IV )patients. When different stimulation frequencies were utilised, auditory stimulation significantly changed some of the altered walking parameters in Parkinson patients. Frequencies matching preferred walking cadence or above this, up to the fastest walking, were those that seem to interact most effectively with the abnormal kinematic parameters in PD(III-IV )patients. Visual stimulation negatively modulated cadence in PD(III-IV) in the frequency range used. Sensory stimulation facilitates gait in PD. Studies using sensory stimulation as a tool to facilitate walking should take into account the grade of disability of the patients.
Huntington's disease (HD), a progressive neurological disorder involving degeneration in basal ganglia structures, leads to abnormal control of saccadic eye movements. We investigated whether saccadic impairments in HD (N = 9) correlated with clinical disease severity to determine the relationship between saccadic control and basal ganglia pathology. HD patients and age/sex-matched controls performed various eye movement tasks that required the execution or suppression of automatic or voluntary saccades. In the &quot;immediate&quot; saccade tasks, subjects were instructed to look either toward (pro-saccade) or away from (anti-saccade) a peripheral stimulus. In the &quot;delayed&quot; saccade tasks (pro-/anti-saccades; delayed memory-guided sequential saccades), subjects were instructed to wait for a central fixation point to disappear before initiating saccades towards or away from a peripheral stimulus that had appeared previously. In all tasks, mean saccadic reaction time was longer and more variable amongst the HD patients. On immediate anti-saccade trials, the occurrence of direction errors (pro-saccades initiated toward stimulus) was higher in the HD patients. In the delayed tasks, timing errors (eye movements made prior to the go signal) were also greater in the HD patients. The increased variability in saccadic reaction times and occurrence of errors (both timing and direction errors) were highly correlated with disease severity, as assessed with the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale, suggesting that saccadic impairments worsen as the disease progresses. Thus, performance on voluntary saccade paradigms provides a sensitive indicator of disease progression in HD.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) was used in 8-month-old infants and adults to study brain electrical activity as a function of perception of structured optic flow and random visual motion. A combination of visual evoked potential (VEP) analyses and analyses of temporal spectral evolution (TSE, time-dependent spectral power) was carried out. Significant differences were found for the N2 component of VEP for optic flow versus random visual motion within and between groups. Both adults and infants showed shorter latencies for structured optic flow than random visual motion, and infants showed longer latencies, particularly for random visual motion, and larger amplitudes than adults. Both groups also showed significant differences in induced activity when TSE of the two motion stimuli (optic flow and random visual motion) was compared with TSE of a static dot pattern. Infants showed an induced decrease in the amplitudes in theta-band frequency, while adults showed an induced increase in beta-band frequency. Differences in induced activity for the two motion stimuli could, however, not be observed. Brain activity related to motion stimuli is different for infants and adults and the differences are observed both in VEPs and in induced activity of the EEG. To investigate how changes in locomotor development are related to accompanying changes in brain activity associated with visual motion perception, more data of infants with different experiences in self-produced locomotion are required.
Rhodopsin transgenes carrying mutations that cause autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa in humans have been used to study rod photoreceptor degeneration in various model organisms including Xenopus laevis. To date, the only transgenes shown to cause rod photoreceptor degeneration in Xenopus laevis have been either mammalian rhodopsins or chimeric versions of rhodopsin based mainly on Xenopus laevis rhodopsin sequences but with a mammalian C-terminus. Since the C-terminal sequence of rhodopsin is highly conserved in mammals and divergent in Xenopus laevis, and mammalian and epitope-tagged rhodopsins may have unexpected properties as transgenes, we decided to test whether a Xenopus laevis rhodopsin transgene carrying only the P23H mutation could also cause rod photoreceptor degeneration. Xenopus laevis tadpoles expressing these transgenes indeed had shortened outer segments and, in severely affected animals, the loss of rod photoreceptors but not the loss of cone photoreceptors. RT-PCR analyses showed that less than 10% of mutant transgenic rhodopsin relative to wild-type endogenous rhodopsin mRNA was sufficient to produce severe rod photoreceptor degeneration. As observed in other animal models as well as humans carrying this particular rhodopsin mutation, the rod photoreceptor degeneration was most severe in the ventral retina and was modified by light. Thus, the rod photoreceptor degeneration produced in Xenopus laevis by the P23H mutation in an otherwise untagged Xenopus laevis rhodopsin is generally similar to that seen with mammalian rhodopsins and epitope-tagged versions of Xenopus laevis rhodopsin, though some differences remain to be explained.
Long-term functional impairments due to spinal cord injury (SCI) in the rat result from secondary apoptotic death regulated, in part, by SCI-induced decreases in protein levels of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-xL. We have shown that exogenous administration of Bcl-xL spares neurons 24 h after SCI. However, long-term effects of chronic application of Bcl-xL have not been characterized. To counteract SCI-induced decreases in Bcl-xL and resulting apoptosis, we used the TAT protein transduction domain fused to the Bcl-xL protein (Tat-Bcl-xL), or its antiapoptotic domain BH4 (Tat-BH4). We used intrathecal delivery of Tat-Bcl-xL, or Tat-BH4, into injured spinal cords for 24 h or 7 days, and apoptosis, neuronal death and locomotor recovery were assessed up to 2 months after injury. Both, Tat-Bcl-xL and Tat-BH4, significantly decreased SCI-induced apoptosis in thoracic segments containing the site of injury (T10) at 24 h or 7 days after SCI. However, the 7-day delivery of Tat-Bcl-xL, or Tat-BH4, also induced a significant impairment of locomotor recovery that lasted beyond the drug delivery time. We found that the 7-day administration of Tat-Bcl-xL, or Tat-BH4, significantly increased non-apoptotic neuronal loss and robustly augmented microglia/macrophage activation. These results indicate that the antiapoptotic treatment targeting Bcl-xL shifts neuronal apoptosis to necrosis, increases the inflammatory response and impairs locomotor recovery. Our results suggest that a combinatorial treatment consisting of antiapoptotic and anti-inflammatory agents may be necessary to achieve tissue preservation and significant improvement in functional recovery after SCI.
Up to 40% of Parkinson's disease patients suffer from anxiety, but little is known about the mechanisms involved. We used the elevated plus maze and open field test to evaluate groups of young adult mice expressing different levels of alpha-synuclein, including mice transgenic for human alpha-synuclein with the A53T mutation. Compared to alpha-synuclein knock-out mice and wild-type controls, alpha-synuclein A53T transgenic mice exhibited reduced anxiety-like behaviour by spending markedly greater amounts of time on the maze open arms and by a higher proportion of entries to the open arms. In the open field, transgenic mice showed a trend towards reduced locomotor habituation and increased thigmotaxis. These results indicate a possible role for alpha-synuclein in anxiety-like behaviours.
The nucleus accumbens (Acb) is an extensively studied neuroanatomical substrate of opiate reward and the neural plasticity associated with chronic opioid use. The cellular mechanisms mediating opioid-dependent plasticity are uncertain, however AMPA-type glutamate receptor trafficking in dopamine D1 dopamine receptor (D1R) expressing neurons may be a potential cellular pathway for these adaptations, although there is no evidence for this possibility. Immunogold electron microscopy was used to quantify the surface expression of the AMPA GluR1 subunit in dendritic profiles of neurons in the Acb in response to intermittent 14-day non-contingent injections of escalating doses of morphine, a model that parallels opioid self-administration. To determine if changes in GluR1 trafficking occurred in neurons potentially sensitive to dopamine-induced D1R activation, immunoperoxidase labeling of D1R was combined with immunogold labeling of GluR1. Immunogold quantification was performed in two distinct Acb subregions, the shell, an area involved in processing incentive salience related to rewarding stimuli, and the core, an area involved in reward-seeking behaviors. We provide the first report that chronic morphine administration is associated with a receptor-phenotypic decrease in surface trafficking of GluR1 in Acb subregions. When compared to saline injected animals, morphine produced a decrease in plasma membrane GluR1 labeling in medium- and large-sized D1R expressing dendritic profiles in the Acb shell. In contrast, in the Acb core, surface GluR1 was decreased in small-sized dendrites that did not express the dopamine receptor. These results indicate that chronic intermittent injection of escalating doses of morphine is accompanied by ultrastructural plasticity of GluR1 in neurons that are responsive to glutamate and dopamine-induced D1R activation in the Acb shell, and neurons capable of responding to glutamate but not D1R receptor stimulation in the Acb core. Thus, AMPA receptor trafficking associated with chronic opiate exposure in functionally distinct areas of the Acb may be distinguished by D1R receptor activation, suggesting the potential for differing neural substrates of reward and motor aspects of addictive processes involving glutamate and dopamine signaling.
Circling behaviour of the ci2 rat mutant, a model for hyperkinetic movement disorders, is associated with an abnormal asymmetry in striatal dopaminergic activity. Since it is more likely that imbalances in several neurotransmitter systems result in the cascade of neurochemical disturbances underlying disorders involving motor dysfunctions, we measured the densities of 12 neurotransmitter receptors in the basal ganglia and vestibular nuclei of adult circling mutants (ci2/ci2), non-circling littermates (ci2/+) and controls from the background strain (LEW/Ztm). In controls, the left caudate putamen (CPu) contains lower kainate and the left globus pallidus higher AMPA densities than their right counterparts. The medial vestibular nucleus of mutants ipsilateral to the preferred direction of rotation contained higher M2 densities than the contralateral one. ci2/+ animals presented no interhemispheric differences, did not differ behaviourally from controls, but contained lower GABAA densities in the CPu, nucleus accumbens (Acb) and reticular (Rt), ventromedial (VM) and ventral posterolateral (VPL) thalamic nuclei. Mutants contained lower GABAA (CPu, Acb, Rt, VPL) but higher nicotinic (Rt, VM) densities than controls and higher GABAA (CPu, VM) densities than ci2/+ rats. Hyperactivity level of mutants was positively correlated with the adenosine A2A receptor densities in the ipsilateral Acb, but negatively correlated with those of the ipsilateral thalamus. Concluding, ci2/ci2 mutants show alterations in GABAA, cholinergic and A2A receptor densities. Our data add to the hypothesis that motor disorders such as hyperkinesias cannot be explained solely by absolute functional increases or decreases in the dopaminergic system, but are due to imbalances in several neurotransmitter systems.
Atrophy of the corpus callosum (CC) is a well-documented observation in clinically definite multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. One recent hypothesis for the neurodegeneration that occurs in MS is that ion dyshomeostasis leads to neuroaxonal damage. To examine whether ion dyshomeostasis occurs in the CC during MS onset, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was utilized as an animal MS model to induce autoimmunity-mediated responses. To date, in vivo investigations of neuronal ion homeostasis has not been feasible using traditional neuroscience techniques. Therefore, the current study employed an emerging MRI method, called Mn2+-enhanced MRI (MEMRI). Mn2+ dynamics is closely associated with important neuronal activity events, and is also considered to be a Ca2+ surrogate. Furthermore, when injected intracranially, Mn2+ can be used as a multisynaptic tracer. These features enable MEMRI to detect neuronal ion homeostasis within a multisynaptic circuit that is connected to the injection site. Mn2+ was injected into the visual cortex to trace the CC, and T1-weighted imaging was utilized to observe temporal changes in Mn2+-induced signals in the traced pathways. The results showed that neuroaxonal functional changes associated with ion dyshomeostasis occurred in the CC during an acute EAE attack. In addition, the pathway appeared normal, although EAE-induced immune-cell infiltration was visible around the CC. The findings suggest that ion dyshomeostasis is a major neuronal aberration underlying the deterioration of normal-appearing brain tissues in MS, supporting its involvement in neuroaxonal functioning in MS.
Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency is a heritable disorder of GABA degradation characterized by ataxia, psychomotor retardation and seizures. To date, there is no effective treatment for SSADH deficiency. We tested the hypothesis that a ketogenic diet (KD) would improve outcome in an animal model of SSADH deficiency, the SSADH knockout mouse (Aldh5a1-/-). Using a 4:1 ratio of fat to combined carbohydrate and protein KD we set out to compare the general phenotype, in vivo and in vitro electrophysiology and [35S]TBPS binding in both Aldh5a1-/- mice and control (Aldh5a1+/+) mice. We found that the KD prolonged the lifespan of mutant mice by &gt;300% with normalization of ataxia, weight gain and EEG compared to mutants fed a control diet. Aldh5a1-/- mice showed significantly reduced mIPSC frequency in CA1 hippocampal neurons as well as significantly decreased [35S]TBPS binding in all brain areas examined. In KD fed mutants, mIPSC activity normalized and [35S]TBPS binding was restored in the cortex and hippocampus. The KD appears to reverse toward normal the perturbations seen in Aldh5a1-/- mice. Our data suggest that the KD may work in this model by restoring GABAergic inhibition. These data demonstrate a successful experimental treatment for murine SSADH deficiency using a KD, giving promise to the idea that the KD may be successful in the clinical treatment of SSADH deficiency.
Cisplatin is an effective anti-neoplastic drug, but its use is dose-limited due to its association with severe peripheral neurotoxicity. The neurotoxic effect of cisplatin is believed to result from its accumulation in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), although the mechanism is not completely understood. We used a rat model of cisplatin neurotoxicity to examine changes in gene expression in the DRG. The results indicate that cisplatin affects the expression of several genes associated with apoptosis (Cdkn1a, Ckap2, Bid3, S100a8, S100a9), inflammation (S100a8, S100a9, Cd163, Mmp9), and nerve growth and regeneration (Mmp9, Gfap, Fabp7). The differential regulation of some of these genes may directly contribute to the neurotoxic effect of cisplatin, while others are likely to be representative of the subsequent cellular response to contain damage and initiate recovery. As such, the identified genes may represent candidate processes and pathways that should be considered as targets for therapeutic intervention in cisplatin-induced neuropathy.
Adenosine A2A receptor antagonists alleviate memory deficits caused by aging or by administration of beta-amyloid peptides in rodents, which is in accordance with the beneficial effects of caffeine consumption (an adenosine receptor antagonist) on memory performance in aged individuals and in preventing Alzheimer's disease. We now tested if A2A receptor blockade affords a general beneficial effect in different experimental paradigms disturbing memory performance in rodents. The beta-amyloid fragment present in patients with Alzheimer's disease (Abeta1-42, 2 nmol, icv) decreased spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze after 15 days (29%) to an extent similar to the decrease of memory performance caused by scopolamine (2 mg/kg, ip) or MK-801 (0.25 mg/kg, ip) after 30 min (28% and 39%, respectively). The selective A2A receptor antagonist SCH58261 (0.05 mg/kg, ip every 24 h, starting 30 min before the noxious stimuli) prevented Abeta1-42-induced amnesia, but failed to modify scopolamine- or MK-801-induced amnesia. Similar conclusions were reached when testing another A2A receptor antagonist (KW6002, 3 mg/kg, ip). These results indicate that A2A receptors do not affect general processes of memory impairment but instead play a crucial role restricted to neurodegenerative conditions involving an insidious synaptic deterioration leading to memory dysfunction.
The main circadian clock, localized in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) in mammals, can be synchronized by light and non-photic factors such as serotonergic cues. In nocturnal rodents, injections during the subjective day of the 5-HT1A/7 receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) or its positive enantiomer, induce behavioral phase-advances in correlation with decreased expression of two clock genes, Per1/2. In addition, 8-OH-DPAT and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine reduce light-induced phase-shifts during the subjective night. Beside the chronobiotic effects of serotonin, changes of serotonergic activity in humans have been involved in mood disorders, that are often associated with alterations in circadian rhythmicity. To get insights into the circadian role of serotonin in diurnal species, we investigated its modulation of the SCN in Arvicanthis ansorgei housed in constant darkness. In striking contrast to nocturnal rodents, daily serotonin content in Arvicanthis SCN peaked during daytime while the sensitivity window of its SCN to (+)8-OH-DPAT occurred essentially during the subjective night. Moreover, fluoxetine produced behavioral phase-advances at circadian time (CT) 0 and CT12. Expression of Per1/2, Rev-erbalpha/beta and Roralpha/beta in the SCN was not modified after fluoxetine or (+)8-OH-DPAT injection. Furthermore, both treatments enhanced light-induced phase-advances and delays. Light responses of Per1 and Rorbeta expression at CT0 and those of Per2 and Rev-erbalpha at CT12 were markedly altered by serotonergic activation. The present findings demonstrate that the serotonergic modulation of the SCN clock appears to differ between nocturnal species and the diurnal Arvicanthis. The potentiating effects of fluoxetine on light resetting in a diurnal rodent may be clinically relevant.
Central glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) regulates food intake, glucose homeostasis, and behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to acute stress. Given its pronounced role in acute stress regulation, the GLP-1 system is a prime candidate for mediating the prolonged drive of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis by chronic stress. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated the necessity and sufficiency of GLP-1 for production of chronic stress-induced changes in HPA axis function. Exogenous GLP-1 or the GLP-1 receptor antagonist, dHG-exendin, were delivered into the 3rd ventricle of control animals or animals exposed to chronic variable stress (CVS) for 7 days. Animals in the CVS groups received GLP-1 or dHG-exendin immediately prior to each stress exposure. Prior to and at the end of the 7-day trial, chronically-stressed animals were subjected to a novel stressor to test for HPA axis facilitation. Neither GLP-1 nor dHG-exendin affected CVS-associated increases in adrenal weight or decreases in basal plasma glucose levels. In addition, neither exogenous GLP-1 nor dHG-exendin altered any index of HPA axis activity in unstressed rats. However, GLP-1 enhanced CVS-induced facilitation of corticosterone (but not ACTH) response to an acute stress, whereas dHG-exendin inhibited facilitation. In addition, GLP-1 decreased body weight in chronically-stressed animals. dHG-exendin increased food intake and body weight in unstressed animals, consistent with a tonic role for GLP-1 in body weight regulation. Overall, our data suggest that brain GLP-1 modulates HPA axis activity within the context of chronic stress, perhaps at the level of the adrenal gland.
Rats with a crush in the dorsal funiculi of the C4 segment of the spinal cord were treated with chondroitinase ABC delivered to the lateral ventricle, receiving 6 intraventricular injections on alternate days. In order to investigate the time window of efficacy of chondroitinase, treatment was begun at the time of injury or after a 2, 4 or 7 days delay. Behavioural testing over 6 weeks showed that acutely treated animals showed improved skilled forelimb reaching compared to penicillinase controls. Forelimb contact placing recovered in treated animals but not controls, and gait analysis showed recovery towards normal forelimb stride length in treated animals but not controls. Chondroitinase-treated animals showed greater axon regeneration than controls. The treatment effect on contact placing, stride length and axon regeneration was not dependent on the timing of the start of treatment, but in skilled paw reaching acutely treated animals recovered better function. The area of chondroitinase ABC digestion visualized by stub antibody staining included widespread digestion around the lateral ventricles and partial digestion of cervical spinal cord white matter, but not grey matter.
Preferential loss of the motor protein myosin, as observed in patients with acute quadriplegic myopathy (AQM) or cancer cachexia, causes generalized muscle wasting, muscle weakness and a decrease in muscle fibre force normalized to cross-sectional area. It remains unclear, however, whether this myosin loss influences other important features of muscle fibre function, such as Ca(2+) activation of the contractile proteins. To address this question, we have studied Ca(2+) sensitivity of force generation using skinned muscle fibres from four patients with AQM or cancer cachexia and a preferential loss of myosin; and from seven healthy control individuals. Force and apparent rate constant of force redevelopment (k(tr)) were assessed in solutions with varying Ca(2+) concentrations (pCa), allowing construction of relative force-pCa and k(tr)-pCa relationships. Results showed a rightward shift of the relative force-pCa relationship and a leftward shift of the relative k(tr)-pCa curve in muscle fibres with a preferential myosin loss. To improve the understanding of the mechanisms underlying these alterations, the relative stiffness-pCa relationship was evaluated. A rightward shift of this curve was observed, suggesting that the changes in the Ca(2+) activation of force and k(tr) were predominantly due to a decrease in the relative number of attached cross-bridges at different pCa values. Thus, a change in Ca(2+) activation of the contractile apparatus in patients with preferential myosin loss is proposed as an additional factor contributing to the muscle function impairment in these patients.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a prevalent disorder of childhood with a strong genetic contribution. Recently there has been a massive increase in research across multiple fronts, including genetics, neuropsychology and neuroimaging, with impressive gains made. Here, we review the extant literature on the genetic correlates of cognitive deficits in ADHD, focusing on deficits of sustained attention, heightened reaction-time variability and asymmetries of directed spatial attention. The new era of multidisciplinary research means that links can be forged across multiple levels (e.g., gene-cognition) with potentially important implications for treatment. In this review, we highlight how gene-cognition linkages in ADHD might be profitably used to suggest novel approaches to monitoring stimulant-medication responses, as well as strategies for targeting cognitive remediation techniques towards particular subgroups of children and adults with ADHD.
While proteomics has excelled in several disciplines in biology (cancer, injury and aging), neuroscience and psychiatryproteomic studies are still in their infancy. Several proteomic studies have been conducted in different areas of psychiatric disorders, including drug abuse (morphine, alcohol and methamphetamine) and other psychiatric disorders (depression, schizophrenia and psychosis). However, the exact cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying these conditions have not been fully investigated. Thus, one of the primary objectives of this review is to discuss psychoproteomic application in the area of psychiatric disorders, with special focus on substance- and drug-abuse research. In addition, we illustrate the potential role of degradomic utility in the area of psychiatric research and its application in establishing and identifying biomarkers relevant to neurotoxicity as a consequence of drug abuse. Finally, we will discuss the emerging role of systems biology and its current use in the field of neuroscience and its integral role in establishing a comprehensive understanding of specific brain disorders and brain function in general.
In this review, we report how proteomic methodologies have been used to investigate cellular and animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), with a special focus on alpha-synuclein. PD is a complex, multifactorial neurodegenerative disease affecting approximately 2% of the population over 65 years of age, pathologically characterized by alpha-synuclein intraneuronal inclusions. Etiopathogenetic mechanisms of PD are not fully understood, although a number of factors contributing to the selective degeneration of substantia nigra neurons have been identified. Therefore, cellular and animal models of the disease have been developed to investigate single factors contributing to disease pathogenesis; for example, alpha-synuclein aggregation and altered dopamine homeostasis. Proteomic studies on cellular and animal models have not only confirmed existing theories on PD pathogenesis (mitochondrial impairment, oxidative stress, failure of the ubiquitine-proteasome system), but also allowed the discovery of new important common features of presymptomatic (or premotor) stages of PD, such as dysregulation of cytoskeletal proteins that could be involved at the origin of the disorder.
Diagnosis and monitoring of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) have long depended on clinical examination of individuals with end-stage disease. However, upcoming anti-AD therapies are optimally initiated when individuals show very mild signs of neurodegeneration. There is a developing consensus for cerebrospinal fluid amyloid-beta (Abeta) as a core biomarker for the mild cognitive impairment stage of AD. Abeta is directly involved in the pathogenesis of AD or tightly correlated with other primary pathogenic factors. It is produced from amyloid precursor protein (APP) by proteolytic processing that depends on the beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 and the gamma-secretase complex, and is degraded by a broad range of proteases. This review summarizes targeted proteomic studies of Abeta in biological fluids and identifies clinically useful markers of disrupted Abeta homeostasis in AD. The next 5 years will see a range of novel assays developed on the basis of these results. From a longer perspective, establishment of the most effective combinations of different biomarkers and other diagnostic modalities may be foreseen.
Presently, new attention is given to type I interferons (IFNs) as essential factors linking innate and adaptive immunity. Several studies provided evidence about the importance of IFN-alpha in the differentiation of the Th1 subset, in the generation and activity of cytotoxic T lymphocytes, in the enhancement of a primary antibody response and in the activation of dendritic cells. Owing to their immunomodulatory properties, type I IFNs can represent good candidates to be used as adjuvants for vaccination. In the present review, we summarize recent studies in humans and in animal models, suggesting a possible application of type I IFNs as adjuvants for the development of more effective vaccines against infectious diseases and cancer.
l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) remains the most effective pharmacological treatment for relief of the severe motor impairments of Parkinson's disease. It is very effective in controlling parkinsonian symptoms in the initial phase of the disease, but its action wanes with time. Such 'wearing-off' imposes an escalation in the dosage of the drug, which ultimately fails to provide stable control of motor symptoms and results in the appearance of abnormal involuntary movements or dyskinesia. 'Peak-dose'l-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) currently represents one of the major challenges in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Accumulating evidence suggests that LID derives from overstimulation of dopamine receptors located on the GABAergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the dorsal striatum. These neurons form two distinct projection pathways, which exert opposite effects on motor activity: the direct, striatonigral pathway promotes locomotion, whereas the indirect, striatopallidal pathway depresses locomotion. In order to understand the mechanisms underlying LID, it is important to identify molecular adaptations produced by chronic administration of L-dopa, at the level of one or the other of these two neuronal populations. This review summarizes the results of recent studies indicating that LID is associated with abnormal dopamine D1 receptor signaling affecting the MSNs of the direct pathway. The role of this pathological adaptation and of the consequent changes in signaling in the development and expression of LID are discussed.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder in the aging population, affecting more than 1% over the age of 65 years. Certain rare forms of the disease are monogenic, representing 5-10% of PD patients, but there is increasing evidence that multiple genetic risk factors are important also for common forms of PD. To date, 13 genetic loci, PARK1-13, have been suggested for rare forms of PD such as autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive PD. At six of these loci, genes have been identified and reported by several groups to carry mutations that are linked to affected family members. Genes in which mutations have been linked to familial PD have also been shown to be candidate genes for idiopathic forms of PD, as those same genes may also carry other mutations that merely increase the risk. Four of the PARK genes, SNCA at PARK1, UCH-L1 at PARK5, PINK1 at PARK6 and LRRK2 at PARK8, have been implicated in sporadic PD. There are indeed multiple genetic risk factors that combine in different ways to increase or decrease risk, and several of these need to be identified in order to begin unwinding the causative pathways leading to the different forms of PD. In this review, we present the molecular genetics of PD that are understood today, to help explain the pathways leading to neurodegeneration.
The Perindopril pROtection aGainst REcurrent Stroke Study (PROGRESS) showed the efficacy of blood pressure reduction in secondary stroke prevention. This anti-hypertensive treatment (perindopril 4 mg daily plus indapamide 1.5 mg daily) is now routinely proposed to patients referred to our department for stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA). The aim of this study was to evaluate the prescription of PROGRESS therapy during hospitalization and to identify the predictors of therapy discontinuation after discharge. Eligible patients admitted to the Amiens University hospital for acute stroke or TIA from January to April 2003 were included (n = 101). At 1 year, the use of PROGRESS therapy was evaluated by structured phone interviews. In addition, each patient's general practitioner (GP) was also contacted to provide information. PROGRESS therapy was mentioned on the hospital discharge summary significantly less frequently after cardioembolic stroke (OR: 0.15; 95% CI: 0.05-0.5; P = 0.001) and TIA (OR: 0.12; 95% CI: 0.02-0.7; P = 0.02). At 1 year, only 25.7% of patients were treated with optimal PROGRESS therapy (perindopril 4 mg daily plus indapamide 1.5 mg daily). Mention of PROGRESS therapy in the discharge summary was the main predictor of optimal PROGRESS therapy at 1 year (OR: 10.8; 95% CI: 1.3-88.3; P = 0.03). This study shows that mention of PROGRESS therapy in the discharge summary must be improved as it is associated with a higher use of these anti-hypertensive agents 1 year after stroke/TIA.
Abduction of one arm preferentially activates erector spinae muscles on the other side to stabilise the body. We hypothesise that the corticospinal drive to the arm abductors and the erector spinae may originate from the same hemisphere. In 18 subjects, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied using an angle double-cone coil placed symmetrically over the vertex. Motor evoked potentials (MEP) could not be evoked systematically seated at rest but could be evoked bilaterally in erector spinae muscles during unilateral arm abduction. TMS was applied at 110% and 120% motor threshold (MT) for the contralateral erector spinae muscle when an arm was abducted against resistance. The electromyographic (EMG) activity in the erector spinae at L4 vertebral level during contralateral arm abduction was significantly higher (P&lt;0.05) than in the ipsilateral erector spinae. The mean (+/-S.E.M.) latencies of MEPs in the contralateral muscle to TMS at 120%MT (left 16.0+/-0.8 ms; right 17.0+/-0.8 ms) were significantly (P&lt;0.05) longer than in the ipsilateral erector spinae (13.9+/-1.0 ms; 16.6+/-0.4 ms). In two of six subjects from the same group, it was possible to elicit MEPs by TMS applied selectively to one hemisphere using a figure-of-eight coil. MEPs ipsilateral to the TMS had longer latencies than contralateral MEPs. The study revealed an unexpectedly longer rather than shorter latency of the MEP recorded from the lumbar erector spinae muscles when co-activated during abduction of the opposite arm. A speculative explanation is that TMS might activate back muscles contralateral to arm abduction via an uncrossed, ipsilateral corticospinal tract that is slower conducting than the conventional crossed corticospinal tract. The study has implications for the design of measures to promote recovery and rehabilitation of motor function in disorders such as stroke and spinal cord injury.

In all vertebrates, at least two forms of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) are present: GnRH-I and GnRH-II. GnRH-I directly influences the reproductive axis whereas the function of GnRH-II is less clear. The present experimental objectives were to determine the effect(s) of male social cues on the peripheral and neural responses of female house sparrows (Passer domesticus). We hypothesized that male breeding status would significantly influence the amount of immunoreactive GnRH-II in female house sparrow brains. In order to test this hypothesis, females were caged with a breeding male, a non-breeding male, or caged alone. The presence of breeding males did not significantly influence ovary development, luteinizing hormone, or estradiol levels, but male presence increased female body mass, and male presence and condition interacted to influence ovarian follicle size. Using immunocytochemistry, GnRH-I and GnRH-II immunoreactivity was measured in order to evaluate the neuroendocrine response to breeding status in males. When females were housed with breeding males, there were stable numbers of immunoreactive GnRH-I and -II cells but significantly lower amounts of immunoreactive GnRH-I fibre staining within the preoptic area compared to females housed with non-breeding males. Moreover, immunoreactive GnRH-II fibres in the preoptic area, ventromedial nucleus, and medial septum were significantly greater in females housed alone in chamber with non-breeding males. The data demonstrate that the GnRH system in songbirds is modulated by social context. These finding provide novel insight into the mechanisms involved with regulating avian reproductive physiology.
Mitochondrial diseases are not uncommon, and may result from mutations in both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). At present, only palliative therapies are available for these disorders, and interest in the development of efficient treatment protocols is high. Here, we demonstrate that in cells heteroplasmic for the T8993G mutation, which is a cause for the NARP and MILS syndromes, infection with an adenovirus, which encodes the mitochondrially targeted R.XmaI restriction endonuclease, leads to selective destruction of mutant mtDNA. This destruction proceeds in a time- and dose-dependent manner and results in cells with significantly increased rates of oxygen consumption and ATP production. The delivery of R.XmaI to mitochondria is accompanied by improvement in the ability to utilize galactose as the sole carbon source, which is a surrogate indicator of the proficiency of oxidative phosphorylation. Concurrently, the rate of lactic acid production by these cells, which is a marker of mitochondrial dysfunction, decreases. We further demonstrate that levels of phosphorylated P53 and gammaH2ax proteins, markers of nuclear DNA damage, do not change in response to infection with recombinant adenovirus indicating the absence of nuclear DNA damage and the relative safety of the technique. Finally, some advantages and limitations of the proposed approach are discussed.
Variations in maternal behavior, either occurring naturally or in response to experimental manipulations, have been shown to exert long-lasting consequences on offspring behavior and physiology. Despite previous research examining the effects of developmental manipulations on drug-related phenotypes, few studies have specifically investigated the influence of strain-based differences in maternal behavior on drug responses in mice. The current experiments used reciprocal F1 hybrids of two inbred mouse strains (i.e. DBA/2J and C57BL/6J) that differ in both ethanol (EtOH) responses and maternal behavior to assess the effects of maternal environment on EtOH-related phenotypes. Male and female DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice and their reciprocal F1 hybrids reared by either DBA/2J or C57BL/6J dams were tested in adulthood for EtOH intake (choice, forced), EtOH-induced hypothermia, EtOH-induced activity and EtOH-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice showed differences on all EtOH responses. Consistent with previous reports that maternal strain can influence EtOH intake, F1 hybrids reared by C57BL/6J dams consumed more EtOH during forced exposure than did F1 hybrids reared by DBA/2J dams. Maternal strain also influenced EtOH-induced hypothermic responses in F1 hybrids, producing differences in hybrid mice that paralleled those of the inbred strains. In contrast, maternal strain did not influence EtOH-induced activity or CPP in hybrid mice. The current findings indicate that maternal environment may contribute to variance in EtOH-induced hypothermia and EtOH intake, although effects on EtOH intake appear to be dependent upon the type of EtOH exposure.
Although intensively studied, the biological purpose of sleep is not known. To identify candidate genes affecting sleep, we assayed 136 isogenic P-element insertion lines of Drosophila melanogaster. Since sleep has been negatively correlated with energy reserves across taxa, we measured energy stores (whole-body protein, glycogen, and triglycerides) in these lines as well. Twenty-one insertions with known effects on physiology, development, and behavior affect 24-hr sleep time. Thirty-two candidate insertions significantly impact energy stores. Mutational genetic correlations among sleep parameters revealed that the genetic basis of the transition between sleep and waking states in males and females may be different. Furthermore, sleep bout number can be decoupled from waking activity in males, but not in females. Significant genetic correlations are present between sleep phenotypes and glycogen stores in males, while sleep phenotypes are correlated with triglycerides in females. Differences observed in male and female sleep behavior in flies may therefore be related to sex-specific differences in metabolic needs. Sleep thus emerges as a complex trait that exhibits extensive pleiotropy and sex specificity. The large mutational target that we observed implicates genes functioning in a variety of biological processes, suggesting that sleep may serve a number of different functions rather than a single purpose.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is a brain aquaporin implicated in the pathophysiology of numerous clinical conditions including brain edema. Here we show that rat AQP4 has six cDNA isoforms, formed by alternative splicing. These are named AQP4a-f, where AQP4a and AQP4c correspond to the two classical M1 and M23 isoforms, respectively. The various isoforms are differentially expressed in kidney and brain, and their prevalence does not correspond to the level of the respective mRNAs, pointing to posttranscriptional regulation. The three isoforms lacking exon 2, AQP4b, AQP4d, and AQP4f, have an intracellular localization when expressed in cell lines and do not transport water when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In contrast, the largest of the new isoforms, AQP4e, which contains a novel N-terminal domain, is localized at the plasma membrane in cell lines and functions as a water transporter in Xenopus oocytes.

Headache is the most common symptom in patients with cervical artery dissection. This symptom, however, rarely occurs in isolation, and more commonly is associated with other neurological symptoms and signs. Visual symptoms associated with vertebral artery dissection (VD) have also been observed, but do not typically mimic the migraine aura. Here, we report a young patient who presented VD, embolic ischemic lesions, and visual symptoms with the features of aura, followed by migraine headache. The suggestion of VD dissection should be kept in mind in those cases complaining of the first attack of headache that mimics migraine with aura. In these cases, an extensive neuroimaging study is advisable.

An interprofessional project team at the University Health Network (UHN) completed a project to develop an Interprofessional Patient-Centred Practice (IPCP) Framework, explore enablers and barriers to collaborative practice and recommend a model of care delivery and interprofessional practice. The following recommendations were made: adopt proposed IPCP Framework as the basis for developing interprofessional teams, implement an IPCP tool kit as a resource, develop evidence-based interventions across health care teams, and educate health professionals on IPCP.
It is well established that the responses of binaural auditory neurons can adapt and change dramatically depending on the nature of a preceding sound. Examples of how the effects of ensuing stimuli play a functional role in auditory processing include motion sensitivity and precedence-like effects. To date, these types of effects have been documented at the level of the midbrain and above. Little is known about sensitivity to ensuing stimuli below in the superior olivary nuclei where binaural response properties are first established. Here we report on single cell responses in the gerbil lateral superior olive, the initial site where sensitivity to interaural level differences is established. In contrast to our expectations we found a robust sensitivity to ensuing stimuli. The majority of the cells we tested (86%), showed substantial suppression and/or enhancement to a designated target stimulus, depending on the nature of a preceding stimulus. Hence, sensitivity to ensuing stimuli is already established at the first synaptic station of binaural processing.
The majority of research findings to date indicate that spatial cues play a minor role in enhancing listeners' ability to parse and detect a sound of interest when it is presented in a complex auditory scene comprising multiple simultaneous sounds. Frequency and temporal differences between sound streams provide more reliable cues for scene analysis as well as for directing attention to relevant auditory 'objects' in complex displays. The present study used naturalistic sounds with varying spectro-temporal profiles to examine whether spatial separation of sound sources can enhance target detection in an auditory search paradigm. The arrays of sounds were presented in virtual auditory space over headphones. The results of Experiment 1 suggest that target detection is enhanced when sound sources are spatially separated relative to when they are presented at the same location. Experiment 2 demonstrated that this effect is most prominent within the first 250 ms of exposure to the array of sounds. These findings suggest that spatial cues may be effective for enhancing early processes such as stream segregation, rather than simply directing attention to objects that have already been segmented.
In the neocortex, neurons with similar response properties are often clustered together in column-like structures, giving rise to what has become known as functional architecture-the mapping of various stimulus feature dimensions onto the cortical sheet. At least partially, we owe this finding to the availability of several functional brain imaging techniques, both post-mortem and in-vivo, which have become available over the last two generations, revolutionizing neuroscience by yielding information about the spatial organization of active neurons in the brain. Here, we focus on how our understanding of such functional architecture is linked to the development of those functional imaging methodologies, especially to those that image neuronal activity indirectly, through metabolic or haemodynamic signals, rather than directly through measurement of electrical activity. Some of those approaches allow exploring functional architecture at higher spatial resolution than others. In particular, optical imaging of intrinsic signals reaches the striking detail of approximately 50 mum, and, together with other methodologies, it has allowed characterizing the metabolic and haemodynamic responses induced by sensory-evoked neuronal activity. Here, we review those findings about the spatio-temporal characteristics of neurovascular coupling and discuss their implications for functional brain imaging, including position emission tomography, and non-invasive neuroimaging techniques, such as funtional magnetic resonance imaging, applicable also to the human brain.
&quot;Autophagy&quot; is a highly conserved pathway for degradation, by which wasted intracellular macromolecules are delivered to lysosomes, where they are degraded into biologically active monomers such as amino acids that are subsequently re-used to maintain cellular metabolic turnover and homeostasis. Recent genetic studies have shown that mice lacking an autophagy-related gene (Atg5 or Atg7) cannot survive longer than 12 h after birth because of nutrient shortage. Moreover, tissue-specific impairment of autophagy in central nervous system tissue causes massive loss of neurons, resulting in neurodegeneration, while impaired autophagy in liver tissue causes accumulation of wasted organelles, leading to hepatomegaly. Although autophagy generally prevents cell death, our recent study using conditional Atg7-deficient mice in CNS tissue has demonstrated the presence of autophagic neuron death in the hippocampus after neonatal hypoxic/ischemic brain injury. Thus, recent genetic studies have shown that autophagy is involved in various cellular functions. In this review, we introduce physiological and pathophysiological roles of autophagy.
Opportunistic breeders inhabit areas with unpredictable changes in environmental conditions. In such places favorable breeding conditions can occur during any time of year, and one prediction is that individuals should attend to photoperiod less than to more immediate cues to time reproduction. This study tests whether zebra finches utilize photoperiod independently of other proximate cues, specifically food availability. We transferred semi-domesticated male Lesser Sundas zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata guttata) from 8 h light, 16 h dark per day (8L:16D) with ad libitum food availability to 20L:4D with ad libitum food (LD ad lib group) or food restriction (LD restricted group). A third group remained on 8L:16D with ad libitum food availability (SD ad lib group). Testis volume in LD ad lib males increased and was larger than other groups within 30 and 60 days of photostimulation. By contrast, LD restricted males and SD ad lib males did not exhibit significant gonadal growth. However, both LD groups increased mass irrespective of food availability. Surprisingly, at the end of the experiment the SD ad lib group sang the most undirected song. Our data demonstrate that long days alone are not sufficient to drive reproductive development in this opportunistically breeding species. Rather, it appears that reproductive development is stimulated by extended feeding times or increased food abundance during long days, and not by changes in day length per se. These data lend support to the proposition that photoperiod acts as a supplementary cue or permissive factor in this system, and thus represents the possibility of a reversal in the hierarchy of cue sensitivity.
Temperament and personality traits such as neuroticism and behavioral inhibition are prospective predictors of the onset of depression and anxiety disorders. Exposure to stress is also linked to the development of these disorders, and neuroticism and inhibition may confer or reflect sensitivity to stressors. Several lines of research have documented hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in some patients with major depression, as well as in children and non-human primates with inhibited temperaments. The present investigation tested the hypothesis that stress-reactive temperaments would be predictive of plasma adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and cortisol concentrations in the dexamethasone/corticotropin-releasing hormone (Dex/CRH) test. Sixty adults completed diagnostic interviews and questionnaires assessing the temperament domains of novelty seeking and harm avoidance and symptoms of anxiety and depression. All subjects were free of any current or past Axis I psychiatric disorder. The Dex/CRH test was performed on a separate visit. A repeated-measures general linear model (GLM) showed a main effect of harm avoidance in predicting cortisol concentrations in the test (F(1, 58)=4.86, p&lt;.05). The GLM for novelty seeking and cortisol response also showed a main effect (F(1, 58)=5.28, p&lt;.05). Higher cortisol concentrations were associated with higher levels of harm avoidance and lower levels of novelty seeking. A significant interaction of time with harm avoidance and novelty seeking (F(4, 53)=3.37, p&lt;.05) revealed that participants with both high levels of harm avoidance and low levels of novelty seeking had the highest cortisol responses to the Dex/CRH test. Plasma ACTH concentrations did not differ as a function of temperament. The results indicate that temperament traits linked to sensitivity to negative stimuli are associated with greater cortisol reactivity during the Dex/CRH test. Increased adrenocortical reactivity, which previously has been linked to major depression and anxiety disorders, may contribute to the association between temperament/personality traits and these disorders.
Maternal undernutrition leads to intrauterine growth retardation and predisposes to the development of pathologies in adulthood. The hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis is a major target of early-life programming. We showed previously that perinatal maternal 50% food restriction leads to hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis hyperactivity and disturbs glucocorticoid feedback in adult male rats. To try to better understand these alterations, we studied several factors involved in corticosterone sensitivity. We showed that unlike the restricted expression of 11 beta-HSD2 mRNA, the 11 beta-HSD1, glucocorticoid, and mineralocorticoid receptor genes are widely distributed in rat. In contrast to the hypothalamus, we confirmed that maternal undernutrition modulates hippocampal corticosterone receptor balance and leads to increased 11 beta-HSD1 gene expression. In the pituitary, rats exhibited a huge increase in both mRNA and mineralocorticoid receptor binding capacities as well as decreased 11 beta-HSD1/11 beta-HSD2 gene expression. Using IN SITU hybridization, we showed that the mineralocorticoid receptor gene was expressed in rat corticotroph cells and by other adenopituitary cells. In the adrenal gland, maternal food restriction decreased 11beta-HSD2 mRNA. This study demonstrated that maternal food restriction has both long-term and tissue-specific effects on gene expression of factors involved in glucocorticoid sensitivity and that it could contribute, via glucocorticoid excess, to the development of adult diseases.
In monkeys, areas in the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) play a crucial role in visuospatial information processing. Despite many human neuroimaging studies, the location of the human functional homologs of some IPS areas is still a matter of debate. The aim of the present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study was to identify the distinct locations of specific human IPS areas based on their functional properties using stimuli adapted from nonhuman primate experiments, in particular, surface orientation discrimination and memory guided saccadic eye movements (SEM). Intersubject anatomical variability likely accounts for much of the debate. By applying subject by subject analysis, we can demonstrate that sufficient intersubject anatomical and functional commonalities exist. Both the lateral bank of the anterior part of IPS, the putative human homolog of the area AIP, and the caudal part of the IPS (putative CIP) showed activation related to spatial discrimination of surface orientation. Eye tracking conducted during fMRI data acquisition allowed us to show that both areas were separated by an area related to SEM. This area was located in the middle region of the IPS (most probably including LIP), i.e., similar to the location observed in nonhuman primates. In 10 of 11 subjects our putative CIP activation was located in a medial side branch of the posterior part of the IPS, on the opposite side as described in nonhuman primates, making this landmark a useful anatomical marker for the location of CIP.
A previous block-design fMRI study revealed deactivation in the hippocampus in the transverse patterning task, specifically designed, on the basis of lesion literature, to engage hippocampal information processing. In the current study, a mixed block/event-related design was used to determine the temporal nature of the signal change leading to the seemingly paradoxical deactivation. All positive activations in the hippocampal-dependent condition, relative to a closely matched control task, were seen to result from positive BOLD transients in the typical 4-7 s poststimulus time range. However, most deactivations, including in the hippocampus and in other &quot;default mode&quot; regions commonly deactivated in cognitive tasks, were attributable to enhanced negative transient signals in a later time range, 10-12 s. This late hemodynamic transient was most pronounced in medial prefrontal cortex. In some regions, the hippocampal-dependent condition enhanced both the early positive and late negative transients to approximately the same degree, resulting in no significant signal change when block analysis is used, despite very different event-related responses. These results imply that delayed negative transients can play a role in determining the presence and sign of brain activation in block-design studies, in which case an event-related analysis can be more sensitive than a block analysis, even if the different conditions occur within blocks. In this case, default mode deactivations are timelocked to stimulus presentation as much as positive activations are, but in a later time range, suggesting a specific role of negative transient signals in task performance.
Genes located on chromosome 21, over-expressed in Down syndrome (DS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) and which regulate vesicle trafficking, are strong candidates for involvement in AD neuropathology. Regulator of calcineurin activity 1 (RCAN1) is one such gene. We have generated mutant mice in which RCAN1 is either over-expressed (RCAN1(ox)) or ablated (Rcan1-/-) and examined whether exocytosis from chromaffin cells, a classic cellular model of neuronal exocytosis, is altered using carbon fibre amperometry. We find that Rcan1 regulates the number of vesicles undergoing exocytosis and the speed at which the vesicle fusion pore opens and closes. Cells from both Rcan1-/- and RCAN1(ox) mice display reduced levels of exocytosis. Changes in single-vesicle fusion kinetics are also evident resulting in the less catecholamine released per vesicle with increasing Rcan1 expression. Acute calcineurin inhibition did not replicate the effect of RCAN1 overexpression. These changes are not due to alterations in Ca2+ entry or the readily releasable vesicle pool size. Thus, we illustrate a novel regulator of vesicle exocytosis, Rcan1, which influences both exocytotic rate and vesicle fusion kinetics. If Rcan1 functions similarly in neurons then overexpression of this protein, as occurs in DS and AD brains, will reduce both the number of synaptic vesicles undergoing exocytosis and the amount of neurotransmitter released per fusion event. This has direct implications for the pathogenesis of these diseases as sufficient levels of neurotransmission are required for synaptic maintenance and the prevention of neurodegeneration and vesicle trafficking defects are the earliest hallmark of AD neuropathology.
Since apoE allele status is the predominant Alzheimer's disease (AD) genetic risk factor, functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in brain apoE receptors represent excellent candidates for association with AD. Recently, we identified a SNP, rs688, as modulating the splicing efficiency of low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) exon 12 in female human liver and in minigene-transfected HepG2 cells. Moreover, the rs688T minor allele was associated with significantly higher LDL and total cholesterol in women within the Framingham Offspring Study cohort. Since LDLR is a major apoE receptor in the brain, we hypothesized that rs688 modulates LDLR splicing in neural tissues and associates with AD. To evaluate this hypothesis, we first transfected LDLR minigenes into SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and found that the rs688T allele reduces exon 12 inclusion in this neural model. We then evaluated the association of rs688 allele with exon 12 splicing efficiency in vivo by quantifying LDLR splicing in human anterior cingulate tissue obtained at autopsy; the rs688T allele is associated with decreased LDLR exon 12 splicing efficiency in aged males, but not females. Lastly, we evaluated whether rs688 associates with AD by genotyping DNA from 1457 men and 2055 women drawn from three case-control series. The rs688T/T genotype was associated with increased AD odds in males [recessive model, odds ratio (OR) of 1.49, 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.13-1.97, uncorrected P = 0.005], but not in females. In summary, these studies identify a functional apoE receptor SNP that is associated with AD in a sex-dependent fashion.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P aeruginosa) is one of the most common nosocomial pathogens. We report our experience of a device-related outbreak of postoperative ventriculitis caused by P aeruginosa thus initiating investigation of the unusual occurrence. Five neurosurgical patients were affected, postoperatively. The investigations entailed extensive screening of the common sources of contamination for colonization of P aeruginosa. Sterilized instruments used for surgery, including the ultrasonic aspirator (USA) sets and other hollow devices, were randomly sampled and cultured. Conventional culture methods yielded P aeruginosa, with almost similar antibiotic sensitivity pattern in all the patients and the ultrasonic aspirator, clinching the source of contamination. Routine surveillance, identification of unusual patterns, molecular epidemiological typing would be helpful in quick control of outbreaks of postoperative infections.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the use of auditory information for rotation of the shortest way in twelve 6- to 9-month-old sighted infants. Behavior was manipulated by means of an auditory stimulus presented in four different directional angles (90 degrees , 112.5 degrees , 135 degrees , and 157.5 degrees ) to the right and to the left behind the infants, and in one non-directional angle (180 degrees ). Infants lay in a prone position and had magnetic trackers fastened to the head and body which measured their rotation direction and angular velocity. The results showed that infants not only consistently chose the shortest over the longest way, but also rotated with a higher peak angular velocity as the angle to be covered between themselves and the goal increased. The results did not show significant preferences for one particular rotation direction. The study can contribute to the understanding of the auditory system as a functional listening system where auditory information is used as a perceptual source for prospectively guiding behavior in the environment.
The issue of cochlear implantation in deaf children with associated disabilities is an emerging subject. Currently, there is no consensus on whether to implant children with multiple impairments; moreover, it may be difficult to evaluate these children with standard tests pre- or post-implantation. In addition, these children often have poor speech perception and language skills, making assessment more difficult. Despite these factors, these children often receive important benefits in daily life, with an overall improvement in quality of life. In the present study, post-implant outcomes of 23 profoundly deaf children with neuropsychiatric disorders were analysed, using objective measures of speech perception, and a questionnaire administered to the parents, aimed at evaluating the benefits in daily life after implantation. The results were quite variable, but overall positive, in terms of speech perception, communication abilities, and improvement in quality of life. The findings add an additional piece of evidence to support the effectiveness of cochlear implantation in these special cases.

Abstract Eighteen patients diagnosed with burnout-related depression and receiving short-term psychodynamic group psychotherapy were included in this study. The participants completed the group version of the California Psychotherapy Alliance Scales (CALPAS) five times during treatment and evaluated the relationship positively. Alliance increased significantly as treatment progressed; however, the amount of change was small. Level of alliance to the group-as-a-whole, averaged over time, was predictive of two out of three outcome measures, whereas growth in alliance during the early phase of therapy was not predictive of outcome. Exploratory examination of the alliance at different time points showed that alliance to the group-as-a-whole at mid-phase of treatment was substantially correlated with outcome. Personality features such as dismissing attachment style and being overly nurturant or exploitable were predictive of early growth in alliance.
The aim of the present study is to evaluate the role of CRP and Total Cholesterol (TC) in patients suffering from type I Bipolar Disorder (BD-I). Moreover, the goal is to elucidate possible CRP and TC differences in different phases of BD-I: acute mania, euthymia and bipolar depression. Medical records of 90 BD-I patients (30 patients with acute mania, 30 in euthymic state, full remission, and 30 in depressive phase) were reviewed to evaluate serum CRP and TC levels. Laboratory data of 30 healthy controls were also obtained. The scores of Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Bech-Rafaelsen Manic Rating Scale (BRMRS) and Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) were evaluated. CRP levels were higher in acute mania and depressive phase subgroups when compared to healthy controls. CRP was positively associated with BRMRS and YMRS scores in acute mania and with HAM-D in depressive phase subgroups. TC levels were lower in all clinical groups compared to controls. TC levels were negatively correlated to BRMRS, YMRS and HAM-D. In conclusion, the results of the present study support the notion that CRP and TC may be altered in patients with BP-I.
The measurement of blood concentration of immunosuppressive drugs is strongly recommended because of the narrow therapeutic range. An important aspect in the therapeutic monitoring of a drug is its possible degradation. This paper is aimed at investigating the stability of two widely-used immunosuppressants, sirolimus and everolimus. Short (storage at 30 degrees C for 3 or 7 days) and long term (storage at -20 degrees C for 0-90 days with a single freeze-thaw cycle) stability of sirolimus and everolimus in whole blood samples from kidney transplant patients were examined by using MEIA and FPIA. Sirolimus and everolimus samples stored at 30 degrees C in light for up to a week showed a decrement in concentration of 5.2 percent and 6.1 percent, respectively. Our findings on long term stability for both sirolimus and everolimus highlight the possibility of storing samples at -20 degrees C for up to 90 days, without the need to use lower storage temperatures. The results have important implications for patients living far from laboratories where drug concentration is measured or when the storing of blood samples is needed for pharmacokinetic studies.
Neuropsychological tests were used to evaluate different memory systems in the three subgroups of adult Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) (n=105) using analysis of means, factor analysis, and GLM analysis with covariance of gender, estimated IQ, and level of anxiety and depression measured with the Hospital anxiety and depression scale. A higher IQ level was found in the neuropsychological background tests for the predominantly inattentive subtype (ADD). In the memory tests the dual-task memory/simultaneous capacity tests &quot;Brown-Peterson&quot; Consonant Trigram and Benton Visual Retention Test (BVRT) were the most sensitive and were severely reduced in all three subgroups, but only the BVRT revealed a difference between the three ADHD groups. In learning and delayed recall measured with Rey Auditory Verbal learning test and modified Diagnosticum fr Cerebralschdigung (mDCS), the Attention Deficit Disorder subgroup had the best learning and delayed capacity of the three groups. A good agreement was found between the interviewed DSM-IV-TR criteria, Conners CAARS S:S scale, and Wender WURS 25-item scales. Despite the difference in number of ADHD criteria for the three ADHD subgroups, the results in the neuropsychological memory tests indicate a severe reduction in all three subgroups of adult ADHD in simultaneous capacity.
Auditory deficiencies have profound implications for the development of communication abilities, social exchange, and cognitive skills. Although advances in technological instrumentation have decreased the age at which it is possible to detect auditory deficits, an absence of electrophysiological or behavioral reaction to sound does not always reflect hypoacusis. The objective of this study was to evaluate the evolution of audition in a group of children referred for therapy to the CINDA Foundation (Center for Research and Information in Auditory Deficiencies) in Bogota, Colombia, with an initial diagnosis of severe to profound sensorineural hearing loss. We evaluated 25 patients younger than 2.5 years of age with a protocol which included auditory evoked potentials, behavioral responses (tonal audiometry-responses to voice and startle) and language observation. After evaluation, the children began a program of auditory stimulation with audiological follow-up for a period of 6 months to 1 year. The audiological follow-up of the children after auditory stimulation showed significant improvements in both electrophysiological and behavioral indices of their hearing levels (p&lt;.001, one-tailed Wilcoxon exact test). We found a high percentage of children in early stages of auditory maturation with a false diagnosis of hypoacusis (32%). The absence of response may result from compromised auditory reception or processing. Thus, delayed maturation of the auditory pathway should be considered in the differential diagnosis of young children with sensorineural hearing loss.

A bacterial isolate, strain TU-7T, with an optimum growth temperature of about 45-50 degrees C and an optimum pH for growth between 8.0 and 8.5, was recovered from a hot spring in the Furnas area of the island of So Miguel in the Azores. The new isolate is non-pigmented, facultatively chemolithoorganotrophic, strictly aerobic and catalase- and oxidase-positive. The organism oxidized thiosulfate to sulfate with enhancement of growth. This organism assimilated organic acids but did not assimilate carbohydrates or polyols. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis placed strain TU-7T within the radiation of the Alphaproteobacteria as a deep branch of the family Acetobacteriaceae. The major fatty acids of strain TU-7T are 18 : 1 omega 7c, 18 : 0, 19 : 0 cyclo omega 8c and an aliphatic chain with an equivalent chain-length of 20.195, identified as 19 : 0 2-OH cyclo omega 8 (Delta 11 : 12). Ubiquinone 10 is the major respiratory quinone and the major polar lipids are phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, diphosphosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylglycerol in addition to two unidentified aminolipids. Bacteriochlorophyll a and puf genes were not detected. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis and physiological and biochemical characteristics, we describe a novel species of a new genus represented by strain TU-7T, for which we propose the name Elioraea tepidiphila gen. nov., sp. nov. The type strain of Elioraea tepidiphila is strain TU-7T (=DSM 17972T =CIP 109115T).



Few parents of a teenager are surprised to hear that the brain of a 16-year-old is different from the brain of an 8-year-old. Yet to pin down these differences in a rigorous scientific way has been elusive. Magnetic resonance imaging, with the capacity to provide exquisitely accurate quantifications of brain anatomy and physiology without the use of ionizing radiation, has launched a new era of adolescent neuroscience. Longitudinal studies of subjects from ages 3-30 years demonstrate a general pattern of childhood peaks of gray matter followed by adolescent declines, functional and structural increases in connectivity and integrative processing, and a changing balance between limbic/subcortical and frontal lobe functions, extending well into young adulthood. Although overinterpretation and premature application of neuroimaging findings for diagnostic purposes remains a risk, converging data from multiple imaging modalities is beginning to elucidate the implications of these brain changes on cognition, emotion, and behavior.




Mescaline (3,4,5-trimethoxyphenylethylamine) is an hallucinogenic psychoactive substance present in several species of cacti. Mescaline has a documented use dating back 5700 years. In more recent years, the interest in hallucinogenic designer drugs such as ecstasy has also triggered interest in the naturally occurring mescaline. This study was undertaken to develop a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) method for the screening and confirmation of mescaline in human urine samples and to apply this method to routine testing in patient samples. For the screening procedure, chromatographic separation was achieved on a 5-microm HyPURITY C(18) column, using a methanol gradient in ammonium acetate buffer. The MS-MS analysis was performed using selected reaction monitoring; the transitions monitored were m/z 212.3 --&gt; m/z 180.3 for mescaline and m/z 221.3 --&gt; m/z 186.3 for the deuterated internal standard (mescaline-d(9)). The detection limit for mescaline in urine matrix was 3-5 microg/L, the upper limit of quantification was 10,000 microg/L, and the total coefficient of variation for spiked samples containing 10 to 1025 microg/L was &lt; 8.5%. The confirmation procedure included a sample clean-up by solid-phase extraction on a C(18) cartridge, and one extra transition for mescaline (m/z 212.3 --&gt; m/z 195.2) was monitored. The LC-MS-MS method was found to be sensitive and specific for the routine detection of mescaline in urine. Among 462 urine samples collected from young people with alcohol or drug problems, 32% were positive for illicit drugs, but none for mescaline.

Asperger syndrome (AS) is differentiated from high-functioning autism (HFA) largely on a history of &quot;language delay.&quot; This study examined &quot;specific language impairment&quot; as a predictor of outcome. Language skills of 19 children with AS and 45 with HFA were assessed at 4-6 years of age (Time 1) and 2 years later (Time 2). Children's symptoms and functional outcome scores were assessed every 2 years (Times 3, 4, and 5) until ages 15-17 years old. Regression analysis revealed that specific language impairment at time 2 more often accounted for the greatest variation in outcome scores in adolescence than the standard diagnosis of AS versus HFA based on history of language delay. Diagnostic implications are discussed.
Recent advances in bioinformatics have opened entire new avenues for organizing, integrating and retrieving neuroscientific data, in a digital, machine-processable format, which can be at the same time understood by humans, using ontological, symbolic data representations. Declarative information stored in ontological format can be perused and maintained by domain experts, interpreted by machines, and serve as basis for a multitude of decision support, computerized simulation, data mining, and teaching applications. We have developed a prototype symbolic model of canonical neuroanatomy of the motor system. Our symbolic model is intended to support symbolic look up, logical inference and mathematical modeling by integrating descriptive, qualitative and quantitative functional neuroanatomical knowledge. Furthermore, we show how our approach can be extended to modeling impaired brain connectivity in disease states, such as common movement disorders. In developing our ontology, we adopted a disciplined modeling approach, relying on a set of declared principles, a high-level schema, Aristotelian definitions, and a frame-based authoring system. These features, along with the use of the Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) vocabulary, enable the alignment of our functional ontology with an existing comprehensive ontology of human anatomy, and thus allow for combining the structural and functional views of neuroanatomy for clinical decision support and neuroanatomy teaching applications. Although the scope of our current prototype ontology is limited to a particular functional system in the brain, it may be possible to adapt this approach for modeling other brain functional systems as well.
The main aim of this investigation was to determine whether a functional relationship existed between epidermal growth factor (EGF) and voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) upregulation, both associated with strongly metastatic prostate cancer cells. Incubation with EGF for 24 h more than doubled VGSC current density. Similar treatment with EGF significantly and dose-dependently enhanced the cells' migration through Transwell filters. Both the patch clamp recordings and the migration assay suggested that endogenous EGF played a similar role. Importantly, co-application of EGF and tetrodotoxin, a highly selective VGSC blocker, abolished 65% of the potentiating effect of EGF. It is suggested that a significant portion of the EGF-induced enhancement of migration occurred via VGSC activity.
The mechanisms underlying blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction seen in human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) infection are poorly understood; however, they are believed to be caused by interactions of human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMEC) with virus-infected macrophages. Using a transwell system and Affymetrix arrays, we investigated HIV-1-induced genomic changes in HBMEC after coculture with HIV-1-infected or -uninfected monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM). Differentially expressed genes were determined by linear modeling and then were grouped by hierarchical clustering. Compared to HBMEC cocultured with noninfected MDM, 184 probe sets corresponding to 84 genes were differentially expressed in HBMEC cocultured with HIV-infected MDM. Genes activated in HIV-1 MDM-exposed HBMEC included proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced proteins, interferon (IFN)-inducible genes, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, transcription factors of the nuclear factor-kappaB family, and signal transducer and activator of transcription 1. Analysis of molecular networks and canonical pathways associated with differentially expressed genes suggest that HIV-1 causes BBB impairment by mechanisms involving inflammation, cytokine, and IFN signaling in HBMEC.
GADD34 is expressed in the ischaemic brain and reverses protein synthesis shutdown. Consequently, GADD34 could have neuroprotective potential in stroke. BHK medium, a replication-deficient HSV viral vector (HSV1716) with no insert or containing full-length GADD34, the N terminal or a conserved portion of the gene, was injected into mouse brain before stroke. Infarct size was 1.0+/-0.26, 1.19+/-0.36, 1.5+/-0.36, 1.3+/-0.36, and 1.1+/-0.28 mm3, respectively. The increase in infarct size with full-length GADD34 was statistically significant (P&lt;0.05). Immunohistochemistry confirmed viral protein expression. Tissue culture studies revealed GADD34 gene restored virulence in HSV1716, suggesting that HSV virulence, rather than increased GADD34, exacerbated ischaemic damage.
Neonatal electroencephalographic background activity has been found to be a predictive factor of the neurodevelopmental outcome. The aim of our study was to identify if the electrical ictal findings present on the first electroencephalography (EEG) recording are related to the outcome of newborns with neonatal seizures. The study is based on the prospective evaluation of newborns consecutively admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at the University of Parma between September 2001 and September 2004. Thirty-eight subjects were enrolled in the study on the basis of the following inclusion criteria: presence on the first EEG of at least 1 seizure, neurodevelopmental follow-up until 18 months of corrected age, and performance of several ultrasound brain scans during the neonatal period and of at least 1 cerebral MRI within the first year of life. For each seizure, the following were considered: onset topography, morphology of the epileptiform discharges, spread of the discharge, number of electrographic regions of seizure onset, number of seizures per hour, duration of the seizures, and the Ictal Fraction (= total duration of the seizures/duration of the EEG recording x hour). At the last follow-up, the unfavorable neurodevelopmental outcome seems significantly related to the moderate/severe background activity abnormalities (p = .006), to the spread of ictal discharge to the contralateral hemisphere (p = .02), and to the Ictal Fraction, when it exceeds 10 minutes (p = .036). In conclusion, the analysis of the propagation of the ictal discharge and of the Ictal Fraction might suggest significant prognostic information since the first hours of life.
Children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) often show poor performance on tasks that require strategic planning. To assess this ability, we developed a paper and pencil task that required consistent use of a simple test-taking strategy to maximize the number of points. The visual discrimination task with minimal cognitive demands required children to maximize their gains by responding only to outlined high-point problems and to skip the low-point problems. The task was administered twice, the second time with explicit instructions on how to implement the strategy. Few of the children in the ADHD or control group, ages 8-13 years, were able to discover the strategy on their own, but after explicit instruction 90% of the children in the control group but only 57.5% of children with ADHD used the strategy to maximize points (p &lt; .005). The ADHD group used the strategy less efficiently, despite the fact that they did not differ on the total number of problems completed. The findings suggest that children with ADHD have impaired ability to implement strategic approaches for tasks similar to school assignments. The task can potentially be developed as a diagnostic aid and as a basis for further research assessing strategic planning in ADHD.
Controversy surrounding the causation of symptom complaints after mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) is reflected by the existence of alternative diagnostic criteria for postconcussional syndrome (PCS) in the International Classification of Diseases (ICD) and postconcussional disorder (PCD) in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-4th edition (DSM-IV). Previous studies of persisting symptoms have employed various symptom checklists rather than uniform criteria-based diagnoses. This is the first prospective study of persisting symptom complaints using the formal diagnostic criteria for PCD and PCS and comparing these criteria sets in terms of prevalence, relationship to potential compensation, and emotional/functional status. In this prospective study, an unselected series of adults with uncomplicated MTBI (N = 139) was assessed at 6 months postinjury with a brief neuropsychological battery and measures of psychiatric symptoms/disorders, social support/community integration, health-related quality of life, and global outcome. In parallel analyses, participants with PCD/PCS were compared to those without the disorder. Potential compensation was an equally significant factor in both criteria sets. Persistent PCS criteria were met 3.1 times more frequently than persistent PCD criteria. Significant racial differences in fulfilling PCD/PCS criteria were found. No differences in emotional/functional status patterns or global outcome were found between the criteria sets except for minor dissimilarities in the social/community integration domain. The results demonstrate that despite large differences in the frequency of patients meeting the two diagnostic criteria sets, a clear basis for preferring either the PCD or PCS criteria remains to be determined.

Hypertrophic cranial pachymeningitis (HCP) is an uncommon disorder with few studies correlating clinical, imaging and histopathological features. The aim of this study was to describe clinical and laboratory observations and therapeutic options of patients with HCP. Eleven patients with HCP (M:F 6:5; age range, 23-52 years) were evaluated over 10 years. Etiology was ascertained by MRI and laboratory tests and confirmed by biopsy of meninges and/or brain (7), nasal mucosa (1), mediastinal lymph node (1), muscle (2) or conjunctiva (2). Salient clinical features were headache (7), multiple cranial neuropathies (8), visual disturbances (6), seizures (2) and hemiparesis (2). Abnormal tests included: rapid erythrocyte sedimentation rate (3), positive serum venereal disease testing (1), chest CT abnormalities (4/6) and positive Mantoux test (2/5). Cerebrospinal fluid changes (10/11) revealed the following: cell count 0-47/mm(3); protein 14-95 mg/mL; and glucose of 44-79 mg/mL. Contrast MRI revealed a variable extent of thickened dura mater in all patients. Histopathology (n=11) confirmed chronic inflammation (100%) and provided specific etiology in six (vasculitis [2], sarcoidosis [2], tuberculosis [1], Wegener's granulomatosis [1]). Treatment included steroids only (4), anti-tubercular therapy with steroids (5), penicillin (1) and cyclophosphamide and plasmapheresis (1). During follow-up (27.0+/-26.3 months) there was significant recovery (9/9). On serial imaging (4), the lesion remained the same in three and resolved partially in one patient. HCP, despite frequently posing diagnostic and therapeutic challenges, has favorable outcome when treated appropriately.
Typical Lhermitte phenomenon (tingling sensations moving down the limbs or trunk on neck flexion) is a sign of intrinsic spinal cord pathology, most commonly cervical spinal cord demyelination. The phenomenon has several variant forms, and each has a different pathological significance. A delayed typical Lhermitte phenomenon can follow contusion of the spinal cord from neck trauma. Reverse Lhermitte phenomenon induced by neck extension is usually produced by extrinsic compression of the cervical spinal cord. Upward moving paraesthesia with neck flexion (inverse Lhermitte phenomenon) is relatively rare, and can be a sign of myelopathy from nitrous oxide inhalation.
This was a pilot study to compare the cerebral haemodynamics and neurochemical changes in patients with primary basal ganglia haemorrhage (PBGH), who underwent conventional blood glucose level (BGL) control and intensive BGL control with continuous titrated insulin therapy. Patients admitted over an 18-month period with PBGH after evacuation of haematoma were retrospectively divided into two groups according to the method used for BGL control: the 'intensive' group consisted of patients who underwent continuous titrated insulin infusion to maintain a lower normoglycemic level of 4-8 mmol/L, and the 'conventional' group consisted of patients whose BGL was maintained at between 8.1 and 10.0 mmol/L using conventional 'sliding scale' bolus subcutaneous insulin administration. Data on cerebral haemodynamics, interstitial brain oxygenation (PtiO(2)) and neurochemical monitoring were collected via microcatheters inserted in the perihaemorrhagic penumbral region. A homogenous group of 12 patients with haemorrhage originating in the deep basal nuclei was identified. Five patients (42%) were included in the intensive group, and seven patients (58%) were included in the conventional group. The mean intracranial pressure, mean arterial pressure, BGL, extracellular (EC) lactate, EC glutamate, EC pyruvate and EC glycerol levels and the lactate/pyruvate ratio were found to be significantly lower (p&lt;0.001) in the intensive group compared with the conventional group, but the mean PtiO(2) and amount of insulin administered were higher (p&lt;0.001) in the intensive group. The mean cerebral perfusion pressure and EC glucose did not differ significantly between the two groups of patients. Maintenance of lower normoglycaemia (4-8 mmol/L) with continuous titrated insulin therapy is associated with improved cerebral haemodynamics, oxygenation and neurochemistry in the perihaemorrhagic penumbral region.
Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) is a rare primary astrocytic tumour of the nervous system usually involving the superficial temporal cortex of children and young adults. Although the tumour may exhibit histological features of pleomorphism or cellular atypia, the overall prognosis is good compared with other glial tumours, with only 30% of PXA recurring and 20% undergoing anaplastic transformation. Increased mitotic activity, high MIB-1 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen labelling indices and necrosis are poor prognostic factors, whereas abundant lymphocytic infiltration is associated with more benign biological behaviour. Rarely, in older patients, PXA may have a poor prognosis as these patients tend to have intracranial hypertension and focal deficits, as well as histological features of mitosis, increased cellularity and necrosis. We report the case of a 76-year-old woman who presented with dysphasia and right hemiparesis. A left fronto-temporal lobe PXA was misdiagnosed as glioblastoma multiforme. Although a rare and benign tumour type, PXA in the elderly tend to be more malignant, may have the radiological appearance of a malignant tumour and have poor prognosis.
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) is characterized clinically by headache, altered mental status, abnormal visual perception and seizures. It is associated with neuroradiological findings characterized by reversible white matter abnormalities, predominantly in the parietal-occipital areas. Since the first description in 1996, it has been recognized in an increasing number of medical conditions, including hypertensive encephalopathy, eclampsia, and immunosuppressive treatment. The rapid resolution of clinical and neuroradiologic abnormalities suggests cerebral oedema, which is thought to result from impaired cerebrovascular autoregulation and endothelial injury. We report a patient presenting with acute onset progressively worsening headache and confusion associated with uncontrolled hypertension. CT and MRI revealed acute non-communicating hydrocephalus secondary to cerebellar and pontine oedema. The patient became drowsy, so an external ventricular drain was inserted for decompression of the acute hydrocephalus, and his blood pressure was aggressively managed. The patient recovered well with complete clinical and radiological resolution. This case illustrates the reversibility of RPLS if it is diagnosed early and appropriate treatment is instituted.
Intracranial foreign body granulomas are exceedingly rare. We present the case of an intracranial foreign body granuloma found in a 72-year-old male 10 years after he underwent a successful catheter embolisation of a cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM). The patient presented to our unit after a fall. He had symptoms of confusion, change in mental status and expressive dysphasia. On initial inquiry, the patient had no past medical history of note. Plain brain CT showed a space-occupying lesion in the left frontal lobe with calcifications suggesting an oligodendroglioma. MRI of the brain revealed a heterogeneously enhancing lesion with cystic-solid areas. The patient underwent a craniotomy and excision of the tumour. A pathological examination of the specimen confirmed that it was a foreign body granuloma. Upon further probing into the patient's past medical history, his family recalled prior treatment many years ago at another institution. The old records revealed that the patient had undergone catheter embolisation of a frontal lobe AVM 10 years previously. A MEDLINE literature search (1980-2005) revealed a handful of case reports describing intracranial foreign body granulomas secondary to previous intracranial procedures. Although rare, foreign body granulomas should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who have undergone prior neurosurgical procedures and then present with a space-occupying lesion on imaging.
Wilson's disease (WD), a familial neurological disorder involving the brain and liver secondary to altered copper metabolism, is common in South India. In view of the paucity of studies on this condition, the pathomorphological features of eight cases of WD were studied in detail at autopsy (brain alone, 1; brain and liver biopsy, 1; brain and visceral organs, 6), and are described with a discussion of the differential features of the neurological and hepatic forms. Of the six patients presenting with neurological manifestations, five had central pontine myelinolysis, five had subcortical white matter cavitations, four had putaminal softening, and six had variable ventricular dilatation, unlike the hepatic form. The presence of Opalski cells and pontine myelinolysis appear to be specific to the neurological form of WD. Liver abnormalities were observed in all cases (cirrhosis, 6; steatosis, 4; chronic active hepatitis, 2). Contrary to the rubric 'hepatolenticular degeneration', involvement of the lenticular nucleus was not universal, and nor was the pathology restricted to these anatomical areas.


This is the first placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efficacy of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), escitalopram, in the treatment of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). Women with PMDD (intention-to-treat population, n = 151) were treated intermittently for 3 months, during luteal phases only, with 10 mg/d escitalopram, 20 mg/d escitalopram, or placebo. Escitalopram was found to exert a marked and a dose-dependent symptom-reducing effect, 20 mg/d being clearly superior to 10 mg/d. Although the primary outcome parameter, that is, the sum of the symptoms irritability, depressed mood, tension, and affective lability, was decreased by 90% with 20 mg/d escitalopram, the effect of active treatment on breast tenderness, food craving, and lack of energy was more modest and not significantly different from that of placebo; this outcome supports our previous assumption that the former symptoms are more inclined to respond to intermittent administration of an SSRI than are the latter. Although the placebo response was high, the difference between the placebo group and the 20-mg/d escitalopram group with respect to the percentage of subjects displaying 80% or greater reduction in the rating of the cardinal symptom of PMDD, that is, irritability, was considerable: 30% versus 80%. Adverse events were those normally reported in SSRI trials, such as nausea and reduced libido, and were not more common in patients given 20 mg/d of escitalopram than in patients given the lower dose. This study supports the usefulness of escitalopram for the treatment of PMDD and sheds further light on how different components of this syndrome are differently influenced by intermittent administration of an SSRI.
During corticogenesis, radial glia-derived neural progenitors divide and migrate along radial fibers to their designated positions within the cortical plate. The microtubule-associated proteins doublecortin (DCX) and doublecortin-like (DCL) are critically involved in neuronal migration and division, and may function in a partially redundant pathway. Since little is known about the important early stages of corticogenesis, when neurogenesis is extensive, we addressed a possible differential role by examining spatiotemporal expression patterns of DCX, DCL, and the radial glia marker vimentin during murine development. We found expression patterns of DCL and DCX to differ remarkably prior to embryonic day (E)13. DCL was already expressed at E9 and largely overlapped with vimentin, whereas DCX expression started modestly from E10/E11 onward. DCL was mainly found in the ventricular zone, often in mitotic cells and in pial-oriented radial fibers. In contrast, DCX was expressed in tangential fibers in the outer cortical regions. After E13, DCX and DCL expression largely overlapped but DCL expression had disappeared from the ventricular zone. Also, DCL levels were attenuated, whereas DCX remained high beyond E17. In conclusion, DCX and DCL are differentially expressed, particularly during early corticogenesis, consistent with their different functional roles. Given its involvement in mitosis, DCL appears to have a unique role in the early neuroepithelium that is different from later developmental stages when DCX is coexpressed.
Developing binocular projections to the Xenopus tectum require visual input in order to establish matching topographic maps. In dark-reared Xenopus, the ipsilateral eye's map, relayed via the retino-tecto-isthmotectal pathway, fails initially to acquire normal rostrocaudal order. Moreover, with extended time in the dark, the ipsilateral map becomes progressively less well organized. This phenomenon showed that without binocular cues, the isthmotectal axons are unable to locate proper sites for their terminal zones but left open the issue of whether the axons are able to establish arbors of normal dimensions and/or to sustain normal numbers of branches. In order to test whether dark-rearing modifies isthmotectal axon branching, we have used horseradish peroxidase to examine axons of Xenopus after dark-rearing for periods from 3 to 298 weeks. The results demonstrate that these axons never acquire more than about half the normal numbers of terminals. Surprisingly, however, the dark-reared axons' terminal zones are normal in mediolateral and rostrocaudal extent despite the lack of binocular cues that normally could constrain arbor size by inducing pruning of branches in regions with mismatched visual inputs. The effects of dark-rearing are reversible. After a return to normal lighting conditions, the recovery process begins quickly, with a significant increase in branch numbers within 4 weeks. The terminal zone remains of normal dimensions. These results support the hypothesis that correlated binocular visual input is essential for the maintenance of normal numbers of isthmotectal branches but that normal termination zone size can be established in the absence of visual cues.
To gain a deeper understanding of the transmission of visual signals from retina through the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), we have used a simple leaky integrate and-fire model to simulate a relay cell in the LGN. The simplicity of the model was motivated by two questions: (1) Can an LGN model that is driven by a retinal spike train recorded as synaptic ('S') potentials, but does not include a diverse array of ion channels, nor feedback inputs from the cortex, brainstem, and thalamic reticular nucleus, accurately simulate the LGN discharge on a spike-for-spike basis? (2) Are any special synaptic mechanisms, beyond simple summation of currents, necessary to model experimental recordings? We recorded cat relay cell responses to spatially homogeneous small or large spots, with luminance that was rapidly modulated in a pseudo-random fashion. Model parameters for each cell were optimized with a Simplex algorithm using a short segment of the recording. The model was then tested on a much longer, distinct data set consisting of responses to numerous repetitions of the noisy stimulus. For LGN cells that spiked in response to a sufficiently large fraction of retinal inputs, we found that this simplified model accurately predicted the firing times of LGN discharges. This suggests that modulations of the efficacy of the retino-geniculate synapse by pre-synaptic facilitation or depression are not necessary in order to account for the LGN responses generated by our stimuli, and that post-synaptic summation is sufficient.
The nature of the courtship signalling used by a species is shaped by many factors, one of which is its habitat. Male blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, have a courtship display in which they elevate their body by standing high on their legs, open their chelae and paddle their swimming legs. This courtship display is not reported in other swimming (portunid) crabs and is rarely expressed in laboratory experiments on male blue crabs. In this study, we characterised this display, which we call ;courtship stationary paddling', and distinguished it from other types of paddling. To explain the species specificity of courtship stationary paddling, we hypothesised that this behaviour is an adaptation to low visibility and abundant refuges in the habitat of blue crabs, and that this behaviour enhances chemical signalling when females are relatively inaccessible to males. We used particle imaging velocimetry to visualise water currents generated during courtship stationary paddling, showing that it created water currents directed away from the male and towards the female, thus enhancing chemical signalling. We also showed that males did not perform courtship stationary paddling when females were freely walking such that males could quickly contact and cradle carry them. Rather, males typically performed courtship stationary paddling only when females were inaccessible to them. These results indicate that courtship stationary paddling is a context-dependent behaviour, occurring only when females are not accessible to males, and suggesting that it evolved as an adaptation to life in habitats with many refuges and low visibility.
We present the case of 48-year-old woman suffering from migraine with aura (MA) since menarche. During her life the patient frequently presented catamenial MA attacks with an increasing frequency during pregnancy in particular in the second and third trimesters, and then during breast-feeding. Treatment with oral contraceptive (OC) for endometriosis and later with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil (CMF) for breast cancer produced a higher number of attacks. Instead, she referred an improvement with gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a) for the treatment of endometriosis and then with tamoxifen as hormonal therapy after mastectomy and chemotherapy for breast cancer. We highlight the importance of physiological hormonal modification and hormonal therapies on the course of MA.
In an article in this journal, Nicholas Pastore rejected Ludwig Wittgenstein's critique of Wolfgang Khler and Gestalt psychology. Pastore appears not to have appreciated Wittgenstein's argument that Khler mistook conceptual questions for factual ones. A simi-lar confusion seems to underlie at least some aspects of contemporary neuroscience. Be that as it may, Wittgenstein has had minimal influence on the research practices of psychologists while Khler remains influential. This outcome would not have surprised Wittgenstein, who predicted that scientists would not see his work as relevant to theirs.
