This paper puts together and links some classic and recent molecular data and hypothesis from different authors and laboratories related to learning and memory consolidation. Mainly addressed to non-specialists, it describes how the glutamatergic activation of plastic synapses in the hippocampus can give rise to new or enlarged dendritic spines which may constitute the main structural basis of some kind of memories. To establish learning and memory, the nervous system can use part of the same mechanisms which make the basic structure of neurons during the ontogenetic development of the brain. Through different families of kinases, phosphatases and other proteins, the activated N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and different intracellular signals originated in the post-synaptic membranes can promote the synthesis of new proteins and the dynamic of actin. The consecutive morphological changes in the cytoskeleton of the neuron, later stabilized by new receptors inserted in the post-synaptic membranes, make possible memory consolidation. Short and long-term, as well as persistence, of memory mechanisms are related to these molecular processes. Recent research on system consolidation and memory allocation in neural circuits is also explained.
The largest structure of the basal ganglia, the striatum, modulates motor activity and cognitive function and is composed of GABAergic projection neurons and interneurons. To better understand the mechanisms underlying the development of the striatal neurons and their assembly into functional circuits, we used a mouse with a targeted conditional Met mutation in post-mitotic cells of the ventral telencephalon. Characterization of the ontogeny of the striatal neuronal populations demonstrated that disruption of Met signaling specifically altered the GABAergic interneurons. Medium spiny neurons (MSNs) and cholinergic interneurons were largely unaffected. Mice lacking Met signaling have increased numbers of striatal GABAergic interneurons in the lateral sensorimotor areas with distinct behavioral deficits. Motor function and memory formation and consolidation appeared intact, but procedural learning on the cued task of the Morris water maze was delayed. MET is a susceptibility gene in Tourette syndrome and autism, which are human disorders with impaired procedural learning. This study reveals how a striatal targeted disruption in Met signaling after generation of striatal neurons produces behavioral phenotypes shared by Tourette syndrome and autism, linking the human genetics with the mechanism underlying the disorders.
Increasing evidence indicates that both the ATP P2X receptors and adrenergic systems play a very important role in the development of nociception. However, there is little information concerning the interactions between these two systems in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). In the present study, we examined the effects of noradrenaline (NA) on the P2X3 receptor expression in the DRG of Sprague-Dawley rats. The direct effect of NA on the P2X3 mRNA and protein expression was determined in cultured DRG neurons. Treatment of neuronal cultures with NA (50 nM, 5 h) induced a two-fold increase in P2X3 expression, as detected with real-time RT-PCR and Western blots, but had no effect on P2X2 expression. In electrophysiological experiments, perfusion of neuronal cultures with the P2X3 agonist (-methylene ATP) increased neuronal firing rate by 139% and 273% in neurons treated with either PBS (control) or NA, respectively, indicating that chronic NA treatment significantly enhanced the neuronal response to P2X3 activation. In behavior studies, combination of NA (2 or 20 nmol) with -methylene ATP (10 nmol) produced a significant and long lasting augmentation of thermal hyperalgesia. These results indicate that NA stimulates P2X3 expression in DRG neurons, and this could contribute to the development of pain sensitization.
During the consolidation of fear memory, it has been shown that GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)R) are rapidly downregulated in amygdala. This rapid decrease in GABA(A)R functioning may permit transient hyperexcitablity, contributing to cellular mechanisms of memory consolidation. Memory consolidation also requires brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) activation of tyrosine receptor kinase B (TrkB) receptors in the amygdala and hippocampus. We hypothesized that rapid internalization of GABA(A)R1 is mediated via TrkB activation of PKA and PKC-dependent processes. Primary neuronal cell cultures, from postnatal day 14-21 mouse amygdala and hippocampus, were analyzed with immunofluorescence using cell-surface, whole-cell permeabilization, and antibody internalization techniques, as well as with (3)H-muscimol binding assays. In both hippocampal and amygdala cultures, we found a &gt;60% reduction in surface GABA(A)R1 within 5 min of BDNF treatment. Notably, the rapid decrease in surface GABA(A)R1 was confirmed biochemically using surface biotinylation assays followed by western blotting. This rapid effect was accompanied by TrkB phosphorylation and increased internal GABA(A)R1 immunofluorescence, and was blocked by k252a, a broad-spectrum tyrosine kinase antagonist. To further demonstrate TrkB specificity, we used previously characterized TrkB(F616A) mice, in which the highly selective TrkB-mutant specific antagonist, 1NMPP1, prevented the BDNF-dependent GABA(A)R1 internalization. In hippocampus, we found both PKA and PKC inhibition, using Rp-8-Br-cAMP and Calphostin C, respectively, blocked GABA(A)R1 internalization, whereas inhibition of MAPK (U0126) and PI3K (LY294002) did not prevent rapid internalization. By contrast in amygdala cultures, Rp-8-Br-cAMP had no effect. Together, these data suggest that rapid GABA(A)R internalization during memory consolidation is BDNF-TrkB dependent. Further, it appears that hippocampal GABA(A)R internalization is PKA and PKC dependent, while it may be primarily PKC dependent in amygdala, implying differential roles for TrkB-dependent kinase activation in BDNF-dependent memory formation.
The hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus is a prominent cell group, which is involved in the control of feeding, sexual behavior and cardiovascular function as well as having other functions. The nucleus receives inputs from various forebrain structures and has a dense glutamatergic innervation. The aim of the present investigations was to reveal the location of glutamatergic neurons in the telencephalon and diencephalon projecting to this hypothalamic cell group. [(3)H]d-aspartate retrograde autoradiography was used injecting the tracer into the ventromedial nucleus. We detected radiolabeled neurons in telencephalic structures including the lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the amygdala, and in various diencephalic regions, such as the medial preoptic area, hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, periventricular nucleus, anterior hypothalamic area, ventral premamillary nucleus, thalamic paraventricular and parataenial nuclei and in the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus itself. Our observations are the first data on the location of glutamatergic neurons terminating in the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus. The findings indicate that glutamatergic innervation of the ventromedial nucleus is very complex.
The globus pallidus, a neuronal nucleus involved in the control of motor behavior, expresses high levels of histamine H(3) receptors (H(3)Rs) most likely located on the synaptic afferents to the nucleus. In this work we studied the effect of the activation of rat pallidal H(3)Rs on depolarization-evoked neurotransmitter release from slices, neuronal firing rate in vivo and turning behavior. Perfusion of globus pallidus slices with the selective H(3)R agonist immepip had no effect on the release of [(3)H]-GABA ([(3)H]--aminobutyric acid) or [(3)H]-dopamine evoked by depolarization with high (20 mM) K(+), but significantly reduced [(3)H]-d-aspartate release (-44.8  2.6% and -63.7  6.2% at 30 and 100 nM, respectively). The effect of 30 nM immepip was blocked by 10 M of the selective H(3)R antagonist A-331440 (4'-[3-[(3(R)-dimethylamino-1-pyrrolidinyl]propoxy]-[1,1-biphenyl]-4'-carbonitrile). Intra-pallidal injection of immepip (0.1 l, 100 M) decreased spontaneous neuronal firing rate in anaesthetized rats (peak inhibition 68.810.3%), and this effect was reversed in a partial and transitory manner by A-331440 (0.1 l, 1 mM). In free-moving rats the infusion of immepip (0.5 l; 10, 50 and 100 M) into the globus pallidus induced dose-related ipsilateral turning following systemic apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.). Turning behavior induced by immepip (0.5 l, 50 M) and apomorphine was partially prevented by the local injection of A-331440 (0.5 l, 1 mM) and was not additive to the turning evoked by the intra-pallidal injection of antagonists at ionotropic glutamate receptors (0.5 l, 1 mM each of AP-5, dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, and CNQX, 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo[f]quinoxaline-2,3-dione). These results indicate that pre-synaptic H(3)Rs modulate glutamatergic transmission in rat globus pallidus and thus participate in the control of movement by basal ganglia.
Painful peripheral neuropathies produced by nerve trauma are accompanied by substantial axonal degeneration and by a response in spinal cord microglia that is characterized by hypertrophy and increased expression of several intracellular and cell-surface markers, including ionizing calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (Iba1) and Cd11b (a complement receptor 3 antigen recognized by the OX42 antibody). The microglia response has been hypothesized to be essential for the pathogenesis of the neuropathic pain state. In contrast, the painful peripheral neuropathies produced by low doses of cancer chemotherapeutics do not produce degeneration of axons in the peripheral nerve, although they do cause partial degeneration of the sensory axons' distal-most tips, that is the intraepidermal nerve fibers that form the axons' terminal receptor arbors. The question thus arises as to whether the relatively minor and distal axonal injury characterizing the chemotherapy-evoked neuropathies is sufficient to evoke the microglial response that is seen after traumatic nerve injury. We examined the lumbar spinal cord of rats with painful peripheral neuropathies due to the anti-neoplastic agents, paclitaxel, vincristine, and oxaliplatin, and the anti-retroviral agent, 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC), and compared them to rats with a complete sciatic nerve transection and the partial sciatic nerve injury produced in the chronic constriction injury model (CCI). As expected, microglia hypertrophy and increased expression of Iba1 were pronounced in the nerve transection and CCI animals. However, there was no microglia hypertrophy or increased Iba1 staining in the animals treated with paclitaxel, vincristine, oxaliplatin, or ddC. These results suggest that the mechanisms that produce neuropathic pain after exposure to chemotherapeutics may be fundamentally different than those operating after nerve trauma.
The accumulation of cargo (tau, amyloid precursor protein, neurofilaments etc.) in neurons is a hallmark of various neurodegenerative diseases while we have only little knowledge how axonal transport is regulated. Kinesin-3 UNC-104(KIF1A) is the major transporter of synaptic vesicles and recent reports suggest that a cargo itself can affect the motor's activity. Inspecting an interactome map, we identify three putative UNC-104 interactors, namely UNC-16(JIP3), DNC-1(DCTN1/Glued) and SYD-2(Liprin-), known to be adaptors in essential neuronal protein complexes. We then employed the novel method bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay to visualize motor-adaptor complexes in the nervous system of living C. elegans. Interestingly, the binding of UNC-104 to each adaptor protein results in different sub-cellular distributions and has distinctive effects on the motor's motility. Specifically, if UNC-104 bound to UNC-16, the motor is primarily localized in the soma of neurons while bound to DNC-1, the motor is basically found in axonal termini. On the other hand, if UNC-104 is bound to SYD-2 we identify motor populations mostly along axons. Therefore, these three adaptors inherit different functions in steering the motor to specific sub-cellular locations in the neuron.
The development of major depression requires both genetic and environmental factors. A brain proteomic investigation on the genetic model of Flinders sensitive and resistant line (FSL-FRL) rats was performed. Maternal separation (MS) was also applied to identify protein networks affected by stress exposure, since early-life trauma is considered an important antecedent of depression. Hippocampus (HIP) and prefrontal/frontal cortex proteins were extracted and separated by 2-Dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis. After image analysis, significantly modulated proteins in the different conditions analysed were identified by mass spectrometry. The expression of proteins involved in energy metabolism, cellular localization and transport, cytoskeleton organization and apoptosis differed in the two lines. Maternal separation differently affected the genetic backgrounds, by modulating cytoskeleton and neuron morphogenesis proteins in FSL; energy metabolism, cellular localization, neuron differentiation and intracellular transport in FRL. The present work shows that different mechanisms could be involved in the pathophysiology of depression and the vulnerability to stress, suggesting possible new cellular pathways and key markers for the study of affective disorders.
The hypothesis that attention deficits induced by the hypofunction of N-methyl d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) might be associated with increased glutamate release and changes in the phosphorylation of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein on serine 133 (p-S(133)CREB) was investigated in this study. Infusion of 50 ng/side 3-(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-propyl-1-phosphonic acid ((R)-CPP), a competitive glutamate NMDA receptor antagonist, into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of rats performing the five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task, reduced accuracy of visual discrimination (measured by % correct responses) and enhanced impulsivity (measured by the number of premature responses) and compulsivity (measured by the number of perseverative responses). The mGluR2/3 receptor agonist, LY379268, injected s.c. at 0.1 mg/kg, reduced (R)-CPP-induced impairment in attentional functioning (accuracy) and impulsivity but not compulsive perseveration. In parallel studies using microdialysis technique and Western blot analysis we found that (R)-CPP (100 M) infused in the medial prefrontal cortex increased glutamate efflux whereas injected in the medial prefrontal cortex at a dose causing impairments in attentional performance (50 ng/side) increased p-S(133)CREB in the frontal cortex (FC), decreased it in the caudate-putamen (CPu) and was without effect in the nucleus accumbens (NAC). LY379268 at the dose effective in reducing (R)-CPP-induced behavioral deficit reduced both the (R)-CPP-induced rise in glutamate efflux in the prefrontal cortex and the increase in p-S(133)CREB in the frontal cortex but was without effect on the decrease in p-S(133)CREB in the caudate-putamen. The data provide evidence that enhanced glutamate release and phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) on serine 133 may be associated to attention deficit and loss of impulse control. Furthermore they suggest that mGluR2/3 agonists have a therapeutic potential for cognitive deficits.
Spinal ganglion (SG) neurons have been widely described in rodents, and classified according to various criteria. On the basis of such studies, many features of rodent SG neurons have become benchmarks to classify these cells. However, these traits cannot be confirmed in all other species. In the present study, horse SG neurons were morphometrically and neurochemically characterized by detecting the neuronal markers calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and isolectin B4 (IB4) from Griffonia simplicifolia. Moreover, spinal cord staining and tracer studies were also performed injecting Fast Blue tracer in the ileo-cecal junction. The statistical analysis of the histograms related to the cross sectional area of dark and light SG neurons confirmed the presence of the categories of small and large neurons. The staining methods employed yielded the following results: (1) in all triple staining experiments performed, most SG stained neurons were triple-labeled; (2) SP-IR neurons showed the largest percentages of co-localization with the other markers studied; (3) CGRP-IR and IB4-labeled neurons were the SG neurons showing the largest percentages of single staining; (4) nNOS-IR neurons were more represented in horse SGs than in those from rodents; (5) IB4 was widely co-localized with both CGRP and SP. Retrograde tracer investigation combined with neurochemical evaluation showed that in horse, contrarily to rodents, IB4-labeled neurons are widely involved in visceral innervations. The results obtained from the observations of serial stained sections and from a critical analysis of triple-labeling experiments allowed us to conclude that (1) most stained SG neurons co-expressed IB4-nNOS-CGRP-SP neuronal markers, (2) IB4 is not indicated as a marker of non-peptidergic neurons in the horse, (3) horse IB4-labeled neurons are widely involved in visceral sensation, (4) differently from rodents, horse IB4-, CGRP- and SP-labeled fibers share the same spinal cord level terminations.
Glaucoma is an age-related optic neuropathy involving sensitivity to ocular pressure. The disease is now seen increasingly as one of the central nervous system, as powerful new approaches highlight an increasing number of similarities with other age-related neurodegenerations such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. While the etiologies of these diseases are diverse, they involve many important common elements including compartmentalized programs of degeneration targeting axons, dendrites and finally cell bodies. Most age-related degenerations display early functional deficits that precede actual loss of neuronal substrate. These are linked to several specific neurochemical cascades that can be linked back to dysregulation of Ca(2+)-dependent processes. We are now in the midst of identifying similar cascades in glaucoma. Here we review recent evidence on the pathological progression of neurodegeneration in glaucoma and some of the Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms that could underlie these changes. These mechanisms present clear implications for efforts to develop interventions targeting neuronal loss directly and make glaucoma an attractive model for both interrogating and informing other neurodegenerative diseases.
High caloric intake during early postnatal development can have long term consequences for the offspring. We previously reported that the adult offspring of dams fed a high-fat diet during the last week of gestation and throughout lactation display blunted locomotor response to amphetamine (AMP) and reduced sensitization to the drug compared to offspring of control diet dams. Here, we report that the subsensitivity of high-fat offspring to AMP's locomotor stimulant action reflects, at least in part, altered regulation of nucleus accumbens (NAc) dopamine (DA) transmission. When compared to controls, the DA response of high-fat animals to AMP, as measured with microdialysis, was attenuated in the NAc, but unaffected in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). A relatively higher activity of NAc synaptosomal DA transporter sites without changes in vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT) uptake capacity was also observed in high-fat offspring. Moreover, ventral tegmental area (VTA) D(2) receptor mRNA levels were decreased in high-fat offspring, suggesting a reduction in DA release-regulating D(2) autoreceptors in terminal regions such as the NAc. The magnitude of locomotor response to D(2/3) receptor activation (with quinpirole) was greater in high-fat than in control animals despite having comparable postsynaptic D(2) mRNA levels in the NAc. Finally, while operant responding for a sugar-enriched food reward did not differ between diet groups, high-fat offspring displayed increased operant responding for a fat-enriched reward compared to controls. These findings add to mounting evidence that early life exposure to elevated dietary maternal fat can lead to long lasting changes in DA-mediated behavioral responses to stimulant drugs and fat-enriched foods.
The rewarding influence of drugs of abuse varies with time of day and appears to involve interactions between the circadian and the mesocorticolimbic dopamine systems. The circadian system is also intimately involved in measuring daylength. Thus, the present study examined the impact of changing daylength (photoperiod) on cocaine-seeking behaviors. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained and tested on a 12L:12D light:dark schedule for cocaine-induced reinstatement of conditioned place preference (CPP) at three times of day (Zeitgeber time (ZT): 4, 12, and 20) to determine a preference score. Rats were then shifted to either shorter (6L:18D) or longer (18L:6D) photoperiods and then to constant conditions, re-tested for cocaine-induced reinstatement under each different condition, and then returned to their original photoperiod (12L:12D) and tested once more. Rats exhibited a circadian profile of preference score in constant darkness with a peak at 12 h after lights-off. At both ZT4 and ZT20, but not at ZT12, shorter photoperiods profoundly suppressed cocaine reinstatement, which did not recover even after switching back to 12L:12D. In contrast, longer photoperiods did not alter reinstatement. Separate studies showed that the suppression of cocaine reinstatement was not due to repeated testing. In an additional experiment, we examined the photoperiodic regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) proteins in drug-naive rats. These results revealed photoperiodic modulation of proteins in the prefrontal cortex and dorsal striatum, but not in the nucleus accumbens or ventral tegmental area. Together, these findings add further support to the circadian genesis of cocaine-seeking behaviors and demonstrate that drug-induced reinstatement is modulated by photoperiod. Furthermore, the results suggest that photoperiod partly contributes to the seasonal expression of certain drug-related behaviors in humans living at different latitudes and thus our findings may have implications for novel targeting of circadian rhythms in the treatment of addiction.
Previous studies have demonstrated that pioglitazone (Piog), a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR) agonist, inhibits ischemia-induced brain injury. Piog has also been shown to exert anti-inflammatory effects by attenuation of nuclear factor-B (NF-B) activation after myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury. Because NF-B is known to play a major role in the pathophysiology of brain ischemia, the present study was undertaken to elucidate whether pioglitazone attenuates ischemic neuronal damage through PPAR-mediated suppression of NF-B apoptotic signaling pathway. Permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) model was induced by using an intraluminal filament technique in rats. Piog was administrated i.p. twice (24 h before and at the time of ischemia insult) or once (10 min after ischemia). The neuroprotection of Piog was analyzed by assessing neurological deficits, infarction volume and morphological changes. The inhibition of NF-B signaling pathway by Piog was evaluated by detecting the nuclear translocation of NF-B p65 with immunohistochemistry and its target gene p53 by real-time PCR, and the expression of phospholated NF-B p65 (p- NF-B p65) in primary cultured neurons and the protein levels of IB and p-ERK in the ischemic cortex or striatum with Western blotting analysis. The contribution of a PPAR mechanism to Piog's inhibitory effects on NF-B and neuroprotection was evaluated by pretreatment with the PPAR irreversible antagonist GW9662. In vitro ischemia in cultured primary neurons was induced by the oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) and the protective effect of Piog on cultured neurons was measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay. Piog (0.5, 1, 2 mg/kg) reduced infarction volume, and improved morphological changes and motor deficits. Piog markedly up-regulated the protein levels of IB or p-ERK 6 h or 12 h after ischemia. Piog reduced the nuclear translocation of NF-B p65 in the ischemic cortical cells and repressed the expression of p53 12 h after ischemia. Pre-treatment with GW9662 blocked Piog-elicited reduction in infarction volume, the increase in protein levels of IB and p-ERK, the reduction in the nuclear translocation of NF-B subunit p65 and the repression of p53 mRNA expression. In addition, Piog attenuated the OGD-induced neuronal damage and inhibited the OGD-induced increases in p- NF-B p65 in neurons. The present findings suggest that Piog's neuroprotection appears to be associated with PPAR-mediated suppression of NF-B signaling pathway.
In humans, face configuration, contour and color may affect face perception, which is important for social interactions. This study aimed to determine the effect of color information on face perception by measuring event-related potentials (ERPs) during the presentation of natural- and bluish-colored faces. Our results demonstrated that the amplitude of the N170 event-related potential, which correlates strongly with face processing, was higher in response to a bluish-colored face than to a natural-colored face. However, gamma-band activity was insensitive to the deviation from a natural face color. These results indicated that color information affects the N170 associated with a face detection mechanism, which suggests that face color is important for face detection.
Organophosphates (OPs) pose a constant threat to human health due to their widespread use as pesticides and their potential employment in military and terrorist attacks. The acute toxicity of OPs has been extensively studied; however, the consequences of prolonged or repeated exposure to levels of OPs that produce no overt signs of acute toxicity (i.e. subthreshold levels) are poorly understood. Further, there is clinical evidence that such repeated exposures to OPs lead to prolonged deficits in cognition, although the mechanism for this effect is unknown. In this study, the behavioral and neurochemical effects of repeated, intermittent, and subthreshold exposures to the alkyl OP, diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) were investigated. Rats were injected with DFP s.c. (dose range, 0.25-1.0 mg/kg) every other day over the course of 30 days, and then given a 2 week, DFP-free washout period. In behavioral experiments conducted at various times during the washout period, dose dependent decrements in a water maze hidden platform task and a spontaneous novel object recognition (NOR) procedure were observed, while prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response was unaffected. There were modest decreases in open field locomotor activity and grip strength (particularly during the DFP exposure period); however, rotarod performance and water maze swim speeds were not affected. After washout, DFP concentrations were minimal in plasma and brain, however, cholinesterase inhibition was still detectable in the brain. Moreover, the 1.0 mg/kg dose of DFP was associated with (brain region-dependent) alterations in nerve growth factor-related proteins and cholinergic markers. The results of this prospective animal study thus provide evidence to support two novel hypotheses: (1) that intermittent, subthreshold exposures to alkyl OPs can lead to protracted deficits in specific domains of cognition and (2) that such cognitive deficits may be related to persistent functional changes in brain neurotrophin and cholinergic pathways.
Recent work identified novel progestin signaling molecules, including progesterone receptor membrane component 1 (Pgrmc1), Pgrmc2, serpine mRNA binding protein 1 (Serbp1), progestin and adiponectin receptors 7 (Paqr7) and Paqr8. These molecules mediate rapid progesterone (P(4)) effects in non-neural tissue and we recently mapped their expression in the brain. Many rapid effects of P(4) require 17-estradiol (E(2)) and P(4) priming; therefore, we examined the effects of ovarian hormones on the expression of these non-classical progestin signaling molecules. We focused specifically on the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV), the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA) and the ventrolateral portion of the ventromedial nucleus (VMNvl). These brain nuclei are important for female reproduction. Ovariectomized adult female rats were implanted with capsules containing sesame oil or E(2), and injected 48 h later with sesame oil or P(4). Brains were collected 8 h later and RNA was isolated from the AVPV, SDN-POA and VMNvl. We assessed the effects of ovarian hormones on mRNA levels using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR). In the AVPV, Serbp1 mRNA levels were increased by P(4) in the presence of E(2), and Paqr8 was downregulated by P(4) alone. In the SDN-POA, combined E(2) and P(4) increased Pgrmc1 and Serbp1 mRNA levels, and E(2) alone increased Paqr8 mRNA levels. Finally, in the VMNvl, P(4) increased mRNA levels encoding Pgrmc1, Pgrmc2 and Serbp1, and the combination of E(2) and P(4) increased Pgrmc1 and Serbp1 mRNA levels. Paqr7 was not regulated by E(2) or P(4) in any brain region examined. In summary, we showed that ovarian hormones regulate novel progestin signaling molecules in brain regions important for the neuroendocrine control of reproduction.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) are members of the transforming growth factor  (TGF-) superfamily. BMPs exert its biological functions by interacting with membrane bound receptors belonging to the serine/threonine kinase family including bone morphogenetic protein receptor I (BMPRIA, BMPRIB) and type II (BMPRII). Although BMPR expressions have been well described in the early development of the CNS, little information is available for their expressions in the adult CNS. We, thus, investigated BMPR expressions in the adult rat CNS using immunohistochemistry. Here, we show that BMPRIA, IB and II proteins are widely expressed throughout the adult CNS. Interestingly, we observed that BMPRIA, IB and II proteins are abundantly expressed in many kinds of axons. In addition, we found that BAMRIB-IR was preferentially expressed in dendrites of many neurons throughout the CNS, while BMPRIA was mainly expressed in cell bodies, showing that BMPRIA and BMPRIB are differentially targeted in a single neuron. In addition, besides abundant BMPR expressions in neurons, we exhibited BMPR expressions in astrocytes and ependymal cells. These data indicate that BMPRs are more widely expressed throughout the adult CNS than previously reported, and their continued abundant expressions in the adult brain strongly support the idea that BMPRs play pivotal roles also in the adult brain.
In this study, we manipulated the temporal asynchrony between auditory and visual inputs, and contrasted event-related potentials (ERPs) evoked by multisensory stimuli with the summation of the ERPs evoked by unisensory-auditory (A) and unisensory-visual (V) stimuli with the same temporal asynchrony. Our goal was to investigate the influence of temporal asynchrony on multisensory integration. In our experiment, the auditory and visual inputs in the multisensory stimuli had a stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) of -300 ms, 0 ms, or 300 ms. The results suggested that when the auditory and visual inputs were synchronous, multisensory integrations would occur in the time windows of 110-160 ms, 210-250 ms and 300-350 ms after auditory onset. When the auditory onset preceded the critical action onset by 300 ms, multisensory integrations were involved in the time windows of 110-160 ms and 300-350 ms after auditory onset. When the critical action onset preceded the auditory onset by 300 ms, multisensory integrations would occur in the time windows of 110-160 ms, 210-250 ms, 290-320 ms and 350-400 ms after auditory onset. In addition, in the time windows of 110-160 ms and 210-250 ms, the integrations were stronger when the auditory and visual inputs were synchronous, and in the time window of 250-400 ms, multisensory integrations would be different as the SOAs were different. It was suggested that multisensory integration would occur regardless of the asynchrony between auditory and visual inputs, and multisensory integration could be influenced by temporal asynchrony.
Traditionally studies aimed at elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying cerebellar motor learning have been focused on plasticity at the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse. In recent years, however, the concept is emerging that formation and storage of memories are both distributed over multiple types of synapses at different sites. Here, we examined the potential role of potentiation at the mossy fiber to granule cell synapse, which occurs upstream to plasticity in Purkinje cells. We show that null-mutants of N-methyl d-aspartate-NR2A receptors (NMDA-NR2A(-/-) mice) have impaired induction of postsynaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) at the mossy fiber terminals and a reduced ability to raise the granule cell synaptic excitation, while the basic excitatory output of the mossy fibers is unaffected. In addition, we demonstrate that these NR2A(-/-) mutants as well as mutants in which the C terminal in the NR2A subunit is selectively truncated (NR2A(C/C) mice) have deficits in phase reversal adaptation of their vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR), while their basic eye movement performance is similar to that of wild type littermates. These results indicate that NMDA-NR2A mediated potentiation at the mossy fiber to granule cell synapse is not required for basic motor performance, and they raise the possibility that it may contribute to some forms of vestibulo-cerebellar memory formation.
C/EBP is a leucine-zipper transcription factor implicated in the control of metabolism, development, cell differentiation, and proliferation. However, it remains unclear its role in tumor development. Here, we show that down-regulation of C/EBP by RNA interference inhibits proliferation in the GL261 murine glioblastoma cell line, induces an arrest of the cell cycle at the G0/G1 boundary, and diminishes their transformation capacity and migration. In addition, we show that C/EBP regulates the expression of several DNA damage response- and invasion-related genes. Lastly, C/EBP depletion significantly retards tumor onset and prolongs survival in a murine orthotopic brain tumor model. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a significant diminution of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) labeling in tumors derived from C/EBP-depleted GL261 cells compared with that in controls. These results show, for the first time, the dependence of glioma cells on C/EBP and suggest a potential role of this transcription factor in glioma development.
Subsecond fluctuations in dopamine (dopamine transients) in the nucleus accumbens are often time-locked to rewards and cues and provide an important learning signal during reward processing. As the mesolimbic dopamine system undergoes dynamic changes during adolescence in the rat, it is possible that dopamine transients encode reward and stimulus presentations differently in adolescents. However, to date no measurements of dopamine transients in awake adolescents have been made. Thus, we used fast scan cyclic voltammetry to measure dopamine transients in the nucleus accumbens core of male rats (29-30 days of age) at baseline and with the presentation of various stimuli that have been shown to trigger dopamine release in adult rats. We found that dopamine transients were detectable in adolescent rats and occurred at a baseline rate similar to adult rats (71-72 days of age). However, unlike adults, adolescent rats did not reliably exhibit dopamine transients at the unexpected presentation of visual, audible and odorous stimuli. In contrast, brief interaction with another rat increased dopamine transients in both adolescent and adult rats. While this effect habituated in adults at a second interaction, it persisted in the adolescents. These data are the first demonstration of dopamine transients in adolescent rats and reveal an important divergence from adults in the occurrence of these transients that may result in differential learning about rewards.
Our previous investigation demonstrated that repeated administration of morphine significantly enhanced (2)/-1 subunit expression in the frontal cortex and limbic forebrain of mice as well as morphine-induced place preference. However, little is known about regulatory mechanisms of (2)/-1 subunit expression in conditioned place preference by methamphetamine (METH). In the present study, we investigated the role of (2)/-1 subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) in the mouse brain under repeated treatment with METH. The level of (2)/-1 subunit increased significantly in the limbic forebrain including the nucleus accumbens and the frontal cortex of mice showing METH-induced sensitization. Under these conditions, the development of behavioral sensitization induced by the intermittent administration of METH was significantly suppressed by the co-administration of gabapentin (GBP) with binding activity to an exofacial epitope of (2)/-1 subunit. Furthermore, GBP administered i.c.v. caused a dose-dependent inhibition of the METH-induced place preference. Chronic GBP treatment at the dose alleviating sensitization and place preference significantly reduced the elevation of (2)/-1 subunit of VGCC induced by the repeated administration of METH in the limbic forebrain and frontal cortex, whereas there were no changes in the increase of (2)/-1 subunit mRNA. These findings indicate that (2)/-1 subunit plays a critical role in the development of METH-induced place preference following neuronal plasticity, and that GBP, which significantly suppressed METH-induced place preference by its possible inhibitory action of (2)/ subunit to neuronal membrane, may possibly be used as an alternative drug to treat or prevent drug dependence.
Previous studies showed that chronic estrogen treatment increases tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TpH2) mRNA in the caudal dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), and this increase was associated with decreased anxiety. The present study explored the interaction of estrogen and targeted, bidirectional manipulation of TpH2 expression in the caudal DRN by knockdown or viral overexpression, to decrease or increase tryptophan hydroxylase expression respectively, on anxiety behavior. Rats were ovariectomized and replaced with empty or estradiol capsules (OVX, OVX/E, respectively). Animals received microinfusions of either antisense TpH2 or control morpholino oligonucleotides into caudal DRN and were later tested in the open field test. A separate group of animals were microinfused with TpH2-GFP or GFP-only herpes simplex viral vectors into caudal DRN and tested in the open field. The bidirectional impact of manipulations on TpH2 expression was confirmed using a combination of quantitative protein and mRNA measurements; TpH2 expression changes were limited to discrete subregions of DRN that were targeted by the manipulations. Estradiol decreased anxiety in all behavioral measures. In the OVX/E group, TpH2 knockdown significantly decreased time spent in the center of the open field, but not in the OVX group, suggesting that TpH2 knockdown reduced the anxiolytic effects of estrogen. Conversely, TpH2 overexpression in the OVX group mimicked the effects of estrogen, as measured by increased time spent in the center of the open field. These results suggest that estrogen and TpH2 in the caudal DRN have a critical interaction in regulating anxiety-like behavior.
Microglial activation is one of the causative factors of neuroinflammation in cerebral ischemia. Activation via Toll-like receptors (TLRs) causes increased proinflammatory cytokine expression, such as interleukin-23 (IL-23) and interleukin-17 (IL-17), leading to inflammatory immune responses and neuronal damage. In this study, using a rat focal cerebral ischemia reperfusion (IR) model and an in vitro oxygen-glucose deprivation reperfusion (OGDR) system, we found that TLR2, IL-23 and IL-17 form an axis that leads to increased neuronal apoptosis. TLR2 activation results in IL-23 production which stimulates IL-17 production by microglia. This microglial axis may be a potential therapeutic target to control neuroinflammation in brain IR.
Memories of learned associations between the rewarding properties of drugs and environmental cues contribute to craving and relapse in humans. The mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) system is involved in reward-related learning induced by drugs of abuse. DA D3 receptors are preferentially expressed in mesocorticolimbic DA projection areas. Genetic and pharmacological studies have shown that DA D3 receptors suppress locomotor-stimulant effects of cocaine and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behaviors. Activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by acute cocaine administration is also inhibited by D3 receptors. How D3 receptors modulate cocaine-induced reward-related learning and associated changes in cell signaling in reward circuits in the brain, however, have not been fully investigated. In the present study, we show that D3 receptor mutant mice exhibit potentiated acquisition of conditioned place preference (CPP) at low doses of cocaine compared to wild-type mice. Activation of ERK and CaMKII, but not the c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38, in the nucleus accumbens, amygdala and prefrontal cortex is also potentiated in D3 receptor mutant mice compared to that in wild-type mice following CPP expression. These results support a model in which D3 receptors modulate reward-related learning induced by low doses of cocaine by inhibiting activation of ERK and CaMKII in reward circuits in the brain.
Borneol, a terpene and bicyclic organic compound found in several species, can easily penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and helps the absorption of many agents through BBB in the brain, but there has been no study about its direct action on neurons in the CNS. In the present study, we used an in vitro ischemic model of oxygen-glucose deprivation followed by reperfusion (OGD/R) to investigate the neuroprotective effects of borneol and the related mechanisms. We demonstrated that borneol reversed OGD/R-induced neuronal injury, nuclear condensation, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, and mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation. The elevation of nitric oxide (NO), the increase of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) enzymatic activity and the upregulation of iNOS expression were also attenuated by borneol. The inhibition of caspase-related apoptotic signaling pathway was consistently involved in the neuroprotection afforded by borneol. Meanwhile, borneol inhibited proinflammatory factor release and IB degradation, and blocked nuclear transcription factor appaB (NF-B) p65 nuclear translocation induced by OGD/R. On the other hand, borneol did not show obvious effect on the inhibition of phospho-IKK activation. Furthermore, it failed to affect the OGD/R-induced enhanced level of phospho-SAPK/JNK. In conclusion, our study indicated that borneol protects against cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury through multifunctional cytoprotective pathways. The mechanisms of this reversal from OGD/R may be involved in the alleviation of intracellular ROS and iNOS/NO pathway, inhibition of inflammatory factor release and depression of caspase-related apoptosis. Among these effects, the inhibition of IB-NF-B and translocation signaling pathway might play a significant role in the neuroprotection of borneol.
Expansion of the progenitor pool of oligodendrocytes (OLs) is a critical process for obtaining appropriate amounts of mature myelin-forming OLs in the developing and regenerating central nervous system. In vitro, fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2), together with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), is required to expand oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OLPs) in an unlimited manner, maintaining them in the early progenitor stage. However, the intracellular mechanisms that prevent OLP maturation remain elusive. In order to investigate these mechanisms, we established a mouse OLP primary culture, which enabled us to undertake biochemical analyses. We found that the suppressive effects on maturation of early OLP to the late O4(+) progenitor by PDGF+FGF2 treatment was abrogated by Mek inhibitor, while transfecting cells with a constitutively active Mek1 construct prevented OLP maturation, suggesting that the Mek-Erk pathway is implicated in the effects of the growth factor treatment. The activation of Mek-Erk pathway promoted proliferation of OLP suggesting that cell cycle progression has suppressive effects to the maturation of OLP. Furthermore, molecular screening using DNA microarrays revealed that Hes1, a negative regulator of bHLH transcription factors, is one of the downstream molecules induced by PDGF+FGF2 treatment. We confirmed that forced activation of Mek-Erk pathway is sufficient to induce Hes1 expression and that Hes1, in turn, exerts suppressive effects on the maturation of OL lineage by itself. Our observations thus indicate that Mek-Erk pathway plays pivotal role in preventing early OLP maturation to late OLPs and the effect is mediated by cell cycle progression as well as Hes1 induction.
Sleep inertia (SI) denotes a period of hypovigilance, confusion and impaired cognitive and behavioral performance that immediately follows awakening. Based on the observation that the reactivation of some cortical areas is faster than other upon awakening, here we examined regional differences between presleep and postsleep waking period. Moreover, we also compared rapid eye movements (REM) and stage 2 non-rapid eye movements (NREM) awakenings in a within-subject design. Presleep and postsleep waking electroencephalogram (EEG; 5 min with eyes-closed and 5 min with eyes-open) of 18 healthy subjects (12 males, mean age=23.82.3 years) were recorded from 19 derivations. Participants slept for two consecutive nights in the laboratory. In one night they were awakened from stage 2 NREM, while in the other from REM sleep. EEG power spectra were calculated across the following bands: delta (1-4 Hz), theta (5-7 Hz), alpha (8-12 Hz), beta-1 (13-16 Hz) and beta-2 (17-24 Hz). Moreover, a detailed hertz-by-hertz analysis has been repeated in the 2-4 Hz frequency range. Postsleep wakefulness, compared to presleep, is characterized by a generalized decrease of higher beta-1 and beta-2 EEG power over almost all scalp locations. A detailed analysis of topographical modifications in the low-frequency range showed that postsleep wakefulness is characterized by an increased delta activity in the posterior scalp locations, and by a concomitant frontal decrease compared to presleep. Moreover, it was found a prevalence of EEG power in the high frequency ranges (beta-1 and beta-2) upon awakening from stage 2 compared to REM awakenings over the left anterior derivations. Altogether these findings support the hypothesis that a generalized reduction in beta activity and increased delta activity in more posterior areas upon awakening may represent the EEG substratum of the sleep inertia phenomenon.
There are distinct distributions and associations with vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) for auditory nerve and specific somatosensory projections in the cochlear nucleus (CN). Auditory nerve fibers project primarily to the magnocellular areas of the ventral cochlear nucleus and deepest layer of the dorsal cochlear nucleus and predominantly colabel with VGLUT1; whereas the spinal trigeminal nucleus (Sp5) projections terminate primarily in the granule cell domains (GCD) of CN and predominantly colabel with VGLUT2. Here, we demonstrate that the terminals of another somatosensory pathway, originating in the cuneate nucleus (Cu), also colabel with VGLUT2. Cu projections in cochlear nucleus exhibited a bilateral distribution pattern with ipsilateral dominance, with 30% of these classified as putative mossy fibers (MFs) and 70% as small boutons (SBs). Cu anterograde endings had a more prominent distribution in the GCD than Sp5, with a higher percentage of MF terminals throughout the CN and higher MF/SB ratio in GCD. 56% of Cu endings and only 25% of Sp5 endings colabeled with VGLUT2. In both cases these were mostly MFs with only 43% of Cu SBs and 18% of Sp5 SBs colabeled with VGLUT2. The few Cu and Sp5 terminals that colabeled with VGLUT1 (11% vs. 1%), were evenly distributed between MFs and SBs. The high number of VGLUT2-positive Cu MFs predominantly located in the GCD, may reflect a faster-acting pathway that activates primarily dorsal cochlear nucleus cells via granule cell axons. In contrast, the higher percentage of Sp5-labeled SB terminals and a greater number of projections outside the GCD suggest a slower-acting pathway that activates both dorsal and ventral cochlear nucleus principal cells. Both projections, with their associations to VGLUT2 likely play a role in the enhancement of VGLUT2 after unilateral deafness [Zeng C, Nannapaneni N, Zhou J, Hughes LF, Shore S (2009) J Neurosci 29:4210-4217] that may be associated with tinnitus.
The lateral part of intermediate layer of superior colliculus (SCl) is a critical substrate for successful predation by rats. Hunting-evoked expression of the activity marker Fos is concentrated in SCl while prey capture in rats with NMDA lesions in SCl is impaired. Particularly affected are rapid orienting and stereotyped sequences of actions associated with predation of fast moving prey. Such deficits are consistent with the view that the deep layers of SC are important for sensory guidance of movement. Although much of the relevant evidence involves visual control of movement, less is known about movement guidance by somatosensory input from vibrissae. Indeed, our impression is that prey contact with whiskers is a likely stimulus to trigger predation. Moreover, SCl receives whisker and orofacial somatosensory information directly from trigeminal complex, and indirectly from zona incerta, parvicelular reticular formation and somatosensory barrel cortex. To better understand sensory guidance of predation by vibrissal information we investigated prey capture by rats after whisker removal and the role of superior colliculus (SC) by comparing Fos expression after hunting with and without whiskers. Rats were allowed to hunt cockroaches, after which their whiskers were removed. Two days later they were allowed to hunt cockroaches again. Without whiskers the rats were less able to retain the cockroaches after capture and less able to pursue them in the event of the cockroach escaping. The predatory behaviour of rats with re-grown whiskers returned to normal. In parallel, Fos expression in SCl induced by predation was significantly reduced in whiskerless animals. We conclude that whiskers contribute to the efficiency of rat prey capture and that the loss of vibrissal input to SCl, as reflected by reduced Fos expression, could play a critical role in predatory deficits of whiskerless rats.
Peripheral neuropathy has been reported to prevail in obese or pre-diabetic individuals, yet its etiology remains unknown. Palmitate, a saturated fatty acid increased in obesity and diabetes, is known to induce apoptosis in multiple types of cells and this effect may be mediated by ceramide, a member of the sphingolipid family. To clarify whether de novo ceramide synthesis from palmitate contributes to apoptosis of Schwann cells, we cultured immortalized mouse Schwann cells (IMS) and rat primary Schwann cells with palmitate, a ceramide analogue C2-ceramide as well as inhibitors of the de novo ceramide synthesis (myriocin and fumonisin B1). Apoptosis of IMS detected by nuclear staining and cell membrane inversion was significantly increased by incubation with palmitate for 48 h in a dose-dependent fashion. This enhanced apoptosis was partially but significantly suppressed by myriocin and fumonisin B1. Western blot analysis and immunostaining revealed that palmitate clearly activated caspase-3 in IMS. Unexpectedly, the ceramide synthesis inhibitors failed to suppress the palmitate-induced caspase-3 activation in spite of complete restoration in ceramide accumulation. The results seemed relevant to the observations that C2-ceramide did not activate caspase-3 while provoking apoptosis with a clear dose-dependency. In agreement, the pro-apoptotic action of C2-ceramide was not attenuated by caspase inhibitors that partially suppressed palmitate-induced apoptosis. These results in IMS were well reproducible in rat primary Schwann cells, indicating that the observed phenomena are not specific to the cell line. Collectively, we have reached a conclusion that palmitate induces apoptosis in Schwann cells via both a ceramide-mediated, caspase-3-independent pathway and ceramide-independent, caspase-3-dependent pathways. Given the fact that palmitate and ceramide are increased in obese or pre-diabetic subjects, these lipids may be implicated in the pathogenesis of peripheral neuropathy observed in these disorders.
Cortical malformations are commonly associated with intractable epilepsy and other developmental disorders. Our studies utilize the tish rat, a spontaneously occurring genetic model of subcortical band heterotopia (SBH) associated with epilepsy, to evaluate the developmental events underlying SBH formation in the neocortex. Our results demonstrate that Pax6(+) and Tbr2(+) progenitors are mislocalized in tish(+/-) and tish(-/-)- neocortex throughout neurogenesis. In addition, mislocalized tish(-/-) progenitors possess a longer cell cycle than wild type or normally-positioned tish(-/-) progenitors, owing to a lengthened G(2)+M+G(1) time. This mislocalization is not associated with adherens junction breakdown or loss of radial glial polarity in the ventricular zone (VZ), as assessed by immunohistochemistry against phalloidin (to identify F-actin), aPKC- and Par3. However, vimentin immunohistochemistry indicates that the radial glial scaffold is disrupted in the region of the tish(-/-) heterotopia. Moreover, lineage tracing experiments using in utero electroporation in tish(-/-) neocortex demonstrate that mislocalized progenitors do not retain contact with the ventricular surface and that ventricular/subventricular zone (SVZ) progenitors produce neurons that migrate into both the heterotopia and cortical plate (CP). Taken together, these findings define a series of developmental errors contributing to SBH formation that differs fundamentally from a primary error in neuronal migration.
Degeneration of locus ceruleus (LC) neurons and subsequent reduction of norepinephrine (NE) in LC projection areas represent an early pathological indicator of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In order to study the effects of NE depletion on cortical and hippocampal adrenergic system changes, LC degeneration was induced in 3-month-old APP/PS1 mice by the neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-bromo-benzylamine (dsp4). Dsp4 induced a widespread loss of norepinephrine transporter binding in multiple brain structures already at 4.5 months. This was accompanied by changes of -1-, -2-, and -1-adreneroceptor binding sites as well as altered adrenoceptor mRNA expression. In parallel, we observed increased micro- and astrogliosis in cortical and hippocampal structures in dsp4-treated groups. In addition, the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines CCL2 and IL-1 were induced in both, dsp4-treated and APP/PS1-transgenic mice, whereas IL-1 was only up-regulated in dsp4-treated APP/PS1 mice. Concerning amyloid  (A) deposition, we observed an elevation of A1-42 levels in aged dsp4-treated APP/PS1 mice. These data support the hypothesis that LC degeneration leads to dysregulation of adrenergic receptors and exacerbation of A-induced neuroinflammation, both of which are exploitable for early disease marker development.
Neuronal A-type K(+) channels regulate action potential waveform, back-propagation and firing frequency. In hippocampal CA1 interneurons located at the stratum lacunosum-moleculare/radiatum junction (LM/RAD), Kv4.3 mediates A-type K(+) currents and a Kv4 -subunit of the Kv channel interacting protein (KChIP) family, KChIP1, appears specifically expressed in these cells. However, the functional role of this accessory subunit in A-type K(+) currents and interneuron excitability remains largely unknown. Thus, first we studied KChIP1 and Kv4.3 channel interactions in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells and determined that KChIP1 coexpression modulated the biophysical properties of Kv4.3 A-type currents (faster recovery from inactivation, leftward shift of activation curve, faster rise time and slower decay) and this modulation was selectively prevented by KChIP1 short interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown. Next, we evaluated the effects of KChIP1 down-regulation by siRNA on A-type K(+) currents in LM/RAD interneurons in slice cultures. Recovery from inactivation of A-type K(+) currents was slower after KChIP1 down-regulation but other properties were unchanged. In addition, down-regulation of KChIP1 levels did not affect action potential waveform and firing, but increased firing frequency during suprathreshold depolarizations, indicating that KChIP1 regulates interneuron excitability. The effects of KChIP1 down-regulation were cell-specific since CA1 pyramidal cells that do not express KChIP1 were unaffected. Overall, our findings suggest that KChIP1 interacts with Kv4.3 in LM/RAD interneurons, enabling faster recovery from inactivation of A-type currents and thus promoting stronger inhibitory control of firing during sustained activity.
The effects of methyl--cyclodextrin (MCD), an oligosaccharide, on ion currents were investigated in differentiated NG108-15 neuronal cells. In NG108-15 cells treated with dibutyryl cyclic AMP, the expression level of the K(V)3.1 mRNA was elevated. Depletion of membrane cholesterol by exposing cells to MCD (1 mM) resulted in a significant reduction of the activation kinetics of delayed rectifier K(+) current (I(K)((DR))) in these cells. However, neither activation nor inactivation curve of I(K(DR)) was altered following MCD treatment. In current-clamp recordings, in MCD-treated cells, the instantaneous frequency of the firing in response to long-lasting current stimuli was reduced. In a modified Hodgkin-Huxley neuron, the upward shift in the relationship of activation/deactivation time constant of I(K(DR)) versus membrane potential causes a reduction of I(K(DR)) amplitude accompanied by an increase in the width of action potentials. In the studies from a high-frequency modeled neuron, reduction of voltage-dependent activation of I(K(DR)) can also facilitate spike-frequency adaptation. In a simulated network of spiking neurons, the increased activation/deactivation time constant of I(K(DR)) slowed repetitive firing. Taken together, MCD may slow activation kinetics of I(K(DR)) and confer a trigger for the propensity to develop spike-frequency adaptation in neurons or neuroendocrine cells.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been extensively studied in relation to anxiety and depression but of the seven NPY receptors known to date, it is not yet clear which one is mainly involved in mediating its effects in emotional behavior. Mice lacking the NPY-Y2 receptors were previously shown to be less anxious due to their improved ability to cope with stressful situations. In the present study, the behavioral phenotype including the response to challenges was analyzed in NPY-Y2 knockout (KO) mice backcrossed in to congenic C57BL/6 background. In the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and the forced swim test (FST), the anxiolytic-like or antidepressant-like phenotype of the NPY-Y2 KO mice could not be confirmed, although this study differs from the previous one only with regard to the genetic background of the mice. In addition, no differences in response to acute stress or to the antidepressant desipramine in the FST were detected between wild type (WT) and NPY-Y2 KO animals. These results suggest that the genetic background of the animals appears to have a strong influence on the behavioral phenotype of NPY-Y2 KO mice. Additionally, to further characterize the animals by their biochemical response to a challenge, the neurochemical changes induced by the anxiogenic compound yohimbine were measured in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of NPY-Y2 KO and compared to WT mice. Dopamine (DA) levels were significantly increased by yohimbine in the WT but unaffected in the KO mice, suggesting that NPY-Y2 receptor exerts a direct control over both the tonic and phasic release of DA and that, although the anxiety-like behavior of these NPY-Y2 KO mice is unaltered, there are clear modifications of DA dynamics. However, yohimbine led to a significant increase in noradrenaline (NA) concentration and a slight reduction in serotonin concentration that were identical for both phenotypes.
In this study we demonstrate that CD34(+) cells derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have higher smooth muscle cell (SMC) potential than CD34(-) cells. We report that from all inductive signals tested, retinoic acid (RA) and platelet derived growth factor (PDGF(BB)) are the most effective agents in guiding the differentiation of CD34(+) cells into smooth muscle progenitor cells (SMPCs) characterized by the expression of SMC genes and proteins, secretion of SMC-related cytokines, contraction in response to depolarization agents and vasoactive peptides and expression of SMC-related genes in a 3D environment. These cells are also characterized by a low organization of the contractile proteins and the contractility response is mediated by Ca(2+), which involves the activation of Rho A/Rho kinase- and Ca(2+)/calmodulin (CaM)/myosin light chain kinase (MLCK)-dependent pathways. We further show that SMPCs obtained from the differentiation of CD34(+) cells with RA, but not with PDGF(BB,) can be maturated in medium supplemented with endothelin-1 showing at the end individualized contractile filaments. Overall the hESC-derived SMCs presented in this work might be an unlimited source of SMCs for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a complex demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. Current research has shown that at least in some cases, the primary insult in MS could be directed at the oligodendrocyte, and that the earliest immune responses are primarily via innate immune cells. We have identified a family of receptor protein tyrosine kinases, known as the TAM receptors (Tyro3, Axl and Mertk), as potentially important in regulating both the oligodendrocyte and immune responses. We have previously shown that Gas6, a ligand for the TAM receptors, can affect the severity of demyelination in mice, with a loss of signalling via Gas6 leading to decreased oligodendrocyte survival and increased microglial activation during cuprizone-induced demyelination. We hypothesised TAM receptor signalling would also influence the extent of recovery in mice following demyelination. A significant effect of the absence of Gas6 was detected upon remyelination, with a lower level of myelination after 4 weeks of recovery in comparison with wild-type mice. The delay in remyelination was accompanied by a reduction in oligodendrocyte numbers. To understand the molecular mechanisms that drive the observed effects, we also examined the effect of exogenous Gas6 in in vitro myelination assays. We found that Gas6 significantly increased myelination in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting that TAM receptor signalling could be directly involved in myelination by oligodendrocytes. The reduced rate of remyelination in the absence of Gas6 could thus result from a lack of Gas6 at a critical time during myelin production after injury. These findings establish Gas6 as an important regulator of both CNS demyelination and remyelination.
In this mini-review, we focus on regulatory loops between nuclear receptors and microRNAs, an emerging class of small RNA regulators of gene expression. Evidence supporting interactions between microRNAs and nuclear receptors in the regulation of gene expression networks is discussed in relation to its possible role in neural stem cell self renewal and differentiation. Furthermore, we discuss possible disturbances of the regulatory loops between microRNAs and nuclear receptors in human neurodegenerative disease. Finally, we discuss the possible use of nuclear receptors as pharmacological entry points to regulate neural stem cell self-renewal and differentiation.
One major hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the massive loss of synapses that occurs at an early clinical stage of the disease. In this study, we characterize alterations in spine density and the expression of synapse-associated immediate early gene Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein) in the hippocampal CA1 regions of two different amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mouse lines before plaque development and their connection to performance in hippocampus-dependent memory tests. The density of mushroom-type spines was reduced by 34% in the basal dendrites proximal to the soma of CA1 pyramidal neurons in 5.5-month-old Tg2576 mice, carrying the Swedish mutation, compared with wild-type littermates. A similar reduction of 42% was confirmed in the same region of 8-month-old APP/Lo mice, carrying the London mutation. In this strain, the reduction extended to the distal dendritic spines (28%), although no differences were found in apical dendrites in either transgenic mouse line. Both transgenic mice lines presented a significant increase in Arc protein expression in CA1 compared with controls, suggesting rather an overactivity and increased spine turnover that was supported by a significant decrease in number of somatostatin-immunopositive inhibitory interneurons in the stratum oriens of CA1. Behaviorally, the transgenic mice showed decrease freezing in the fear contextual conditioning test and impairment in spatial memory assessed by Morris water maze test. These data indicate that cognitive impairment in APP transgenic mice is correlated with impairment of synaptic connectivity in hippocampal CA1, probably attributable to loss of inhibitory interneurons and subsequent hyperactivity.
Single-Ig-interleukin-1 related receptor (SIGIRR) is a member of the interleukin (IL)-1/Toll-like receptor (TLR) family. It negatively regulates inflammation, rendering SIGIRR(-/-) mice more susceptible to inflammatory challenge. This susceptibility extends to the brain, where increased responsiveness to lipopolysaccharide has been observed in SIGIRR-deficient mice. While this is likely due to enhanced TLR4-mediated signaling, the functional consequences of these changes have not yet been described. In the current study, we have investigated the impact of SIGIRR deficiency on hippocampal function, and show that novel object recognition, spatial reference memory, and long-term potentiation (LTP) were impaired in SIGIRR(-/-) mice. These changes were accompanied by increased expression of IL-1RI and TLR4, and upregulation of their downstream signaling events, namely IRAK1 (IL-1R-associated kinase 1), c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK), and nuclear factor B (NF-B). The deficit in LTP was attenuated by the endogenous IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) and an anti-TLR4 antibody, and also by inhibition of JNK and NF-B. We propose that IL-1RI is activated by IL-1 and TLR4 is activated by the endogenous agonist, high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), as we identified enhanced expression of both cytokines in the hippocampus of SIGIRR(-/-) mice. Additionally, application of HMGB1 increased the activation of JNK and NF-B and was found to be detrimental to LTP in a TLR4-dependent manner. These findings highlight the functional role of SIGIRR in regulating inflammatory-mediated synaptic and cognitive decline, and describe evidence of the key role of HMGB1 in this process.
Language and music exhibit similar acoustic and structural properties, and both appear to be uniquely human. Several recent studies suggest that speech and music perception recruit shared computational systems, and a common substrate in Broca's area for hierarchical processing has recently been proposed. However, this claim has not been tested by directly comparing the spatial distribution of activations to speech and music processing within subjects. In the present study, participants listened to sentences, scrambled sentences, and novel melodies. As expected, large swaths of activation for both sentences and melodies were found bilaterally in the superior temporal lobe, overlapping in portions of auditory cortex. However, substantial nonoverlap was also found: sentences elicited more ventrolateral activation, whereas the melodies elicited a more dorsomedial pattern, extending into the parietal lobe. Multivariate pattern classification analyses indicate that even within the regions of blood oxygenation level-dependent response overlap, speech and music elicit distinguishable patterns of activation. Regions involved in processing hierarchical aspects of sentence perception were identified by contrasting sentences with scrambled sentences, revealing a bilateral temporal lobe network. Music perception showed no overlap whatsoever with this network. Broca's area was not robustly activated by any stimulus type. Overall, these findings suggest that basic hierarchical processing for music and speech recruits distinct cortical networks, neither of which involves Broca's area. We suggest that previous claims are based on data from tasks that tap higher-order cognitive processes, such as working memory and/or cognitive control, which can operate in both speech and music domains.
Birdsong is comprised of rich spectral and temporal organization, which might be used for vocal perception. To quantify how this structure could be used, we have reconstructed birdsong spectrograms by combining the spike trains of zebra finch auditory midbrain neurons with information about the correlations present in song. We calculated maximum a posteriori estimates of song spectrograms using a generalized linear model of neuronal responses and a series of prior distributions, each carrying different amounts of statistical information about zebra finch song. We found that spike trains from a population of mesencephalicus lateral dorsalis (MLd) neurons combined with an uncorrelated Gaussian prior can estimate the amplitude envelope of song spectrograms. The same set of responses can be combined with Gaussian priors that have correlations matched to those found across multiple zebra finch songs to yield song spectrograms similar to those presented to the animal. The fidelity of spectrogram reconstructions from MLd responses relies more heavily on prior knowledge of spectral correlations than temporal correlations. However, the best reconstructions combine MLd responses with both spectral and temporal correlations.
The cerebellum is reliably activated during both acute and chronic pain conditions, but it is unclear whether the response to aversive painful stimuli can be generalized to other aversive stimuli. We hypothesized that cerebellar activation during pain reflects higher-level encoding of aversive stimuli. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare cerebellar responses in 11 healthy volunteers to noxious heat (46 C) applied to the hand and to the passive viewing of images selected from the International Affective Picture System. Aversive stimuli in the form of noxious heat and unpleasant pictures (unpleasant vs neutral) activated overlapping areas in the posterior cerebellum, specifically in hemispheric lobule VI, Crus I, and VIIb. Pleasant pictures (pleasant vs neutral) did not share the same pattern of activation as observed with the aversive stimuli. Cerebellar areas that showed functional overlap with both heat pain and unpleasant picture viewing were significantly inversely correlated with fMRI signals measured in limbic system structures, including the anterior hypothalamus, subgenual anterior cingulate cortex, and the parahippocampal gyrus. Heat-specific functional connectivity was detected in many regions including primary motor cortex, secondary somatosensory cortex, anterior insula, and the periaqueductal gray. The overlap between cerebellar lobuli reactive to noxious heat and passive viewing of unpleasant images suggest that the cerebellum may contain specific regions involved in encoding generalized aversive processing. The separate cortical networks suggest that noxious heat-evoked responses in the cerebellum can be divided into sensorimotor and emotional networks.
The neural control of hand movement involves coordination of the sensory, motor, and memory systems. Recent studies have documented the motor coordinates for hand shape, but less is known about the corresponding patterns of somatosensory activity. To initiate this line of investigation, the present study characterized the sense of hand shape by evaluating the influence of differences in the amount of grasping or twisting force, and differences in forearm orientation. Human subjects were asked to use the left hand to report the perceived shape of the right hand. In the first experiment, six commonly grasped items were arranged on the table in front of the subject: bottle, doorknob, egg, notebook, carton, and pan. With eyes closed, subjects used the right hand to lightly touch, forcefully support, or imagine holding each object, while 15 joint angles were measured in each hand with a pair of wired gloves. The forces introduced by supporting or twisting did not influence the perceptual report of hand shape, but for most objects, the report was distorted in a consistent manner by differences in forearm orientation. Subjects appeared to adjust the intrinsic joint angles of the left hand, as well as the left wrist posture, so as to maintain the imagined object in its proper spatial orientation. In a second experiment, this result was largely replicated with unfamiliar objects. Thus, somatosensory and motor information appear to be coordinated in an object-based, spatial-coordinate system, sensitive to orientation relative to gravitational forces, but invariant to grasp forcefulness.
A single night of sleep deprivation (SD) evoked a strategy shift during risky decision making such that healthy human volunteers moved from defending against losses to seeking increased gains. This change in economic preferences was correlated with the magnitude of an SD-driven increase in ventromedial prefrontal activation as well as by an SD-driven decrease in anterior insula activation during decision making. Analogous changes were observed during receipt of reward outcomes: elevated activation to gains in ventromedial prefrontal cortex and ventral striatum, but attenuated anterior insula activation following losses. Finally, the observed shift in economic preferences was not correlated with change in psychomotor vigilance. These results suggest that a night of total sleep deprivation affects the neural mechanisms underlying economic preferences independent of its effects on vigilant attention.
Golli proteins, products of the myelin basic protein gene, function as a new type of modulator of intracellular Ca(2+) levels in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). Because of this, they affect a number of Ca(2+)-dependent functions, such as OPC migration and process extension. To examine further the Ca(2+) channels regulated by golli, we studied the store-operated Ca(2+) channels (SOCCs) in OPCs and acute brain slice preparations from golli knock-out and golli-overexpressing mice. Our results showed that pharmacologically induced Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores evoked a significant extracellular Ca(2+) entry after store depletion in OPCs. They also indicated that, under these pharmacological conditions, golli promoted activation of Ca(2+) influx by SOCCs in cultured OPCs as well as in tissue slices. The canonical transient receptor potential family of Ca(2+) channels (TRPCs) has been postulated to be SOCC subunits in oligodendrocytes. Using a small interfering RNA knockdown approach, we provided direct evidence that TRPC1 is involved in store-operated Ca(2+) influx in OPCs and that it is modulated by golli. Furthermore, our data indicated that golli is probably associated with TRPC1 at OPC processes. Additionally, we found that TRPC1 expression is essential for the effects of golli on OPC proliferation. In summary, our data indicate a key role for golli proteins in the regulation of TRPC-mediated Ca(2+) influx, a finding that has profound consequences for the regulation of multiple biological processes in OPCs. More important, we have shown that extracellular Ca(2+) uptake through TRPC1 is an essential component in the mechanism of OPC proliferation.
Spontaneous neurotransmitter release has been considered synaptic noise for decades. Recent work, however, suggests that synaptic events arising from action potential (AP)-independent neurotransmitter release contribute to synaptic function in a manner qualitatively different from AP-dependent release. We investigated the effect of somatic depolarization on spontaneous neurotransmitter release in neurons of the external portion (EX) of the chicken inferior colliculus. We found this manipulation affects spontaneous but not AP-dependent release onto EX neurons in a retrograde manner. This depolarization-induced suppression of spontaneous release requires activation of NMDA receptors on the presynaptic cell and postsynaptic calcium-dependent vesicle fusion. These results show a novel form of plasticity that allows the postsynaptic cell to selectively modulate spontaneous neurotransmitter release of its afferent inputs.
Despite the lack of ipsilateral receptive fields (RFs) for neurons in the hand representation of area 3b of primary somatosensory cortex, interhemispheric interactions have been reported to varying degrees. We investigated spatiotemporal properties of these interactions to determine the following: response types, timing between stimuli to evoke the strongest bimanual interactions, topographical distribution of effects, and their dependence on similarity of stimulus locations on the two hands. We analyzed response magnitudes and latencies of single neurons and multineuron clusters recorded from 100-electrode arrays implanted in one hemisphere of each of two anesthetized owl monkeys. Skin indentations were delivered to the two hands simultaneously and asynchronously at mirror locations (matched sites on each hand) and nonmirror locations. Since multiple neurons were recorded simultaneously, stimuli on the contralateral hand could be within or outside of the classical RFs of any given neuron. For most neurons, stimulation on the ipsilateral hand suppressed responses to stimuli on the contralateral hand. Maximum suppression occurred when the ipsilateral stimulus was presented 100 ms before the contralateral stimulus onset (p &lt; 0.0005). The longest stimulus onset delay tested (500 ms) allowed contralateral responses to recover to control levels (p = 0.428). Stimulation on mirror digits did not differ from stimulation on nonmirror locations (p = 1.000). These results indicate that interhemispheric interactions are common in area 3b, somewhat topographically diffuse, and maximal when the suppressing ipsilateral stimulus precedes the contralateral stimulus. Our findings point to a neurophysiological basis for &quot;interference&quot; effects found in human psychophysical studies of bimanual stimulation.
Rab3A is a small GTPase associated with synaptic vesicles that is required for some forms of activity-dependent plasticity. It is thought to regulate the number of vesicles that fuse through an effect on docking, vesicle maturation, or mobilization. We recently showed that at the neuromuscular junction, loss of Rab3A led to an increase in the occurrence of miniature endplate currents (mepcs) with abnormally long half-widths (Wang et al., 2008). Here we show that such events are also increased after short-term activity blockade, and this process is not Rab3A-dependent. However, in the course of these experiments we discovered that the homeostatic increase in mepc amplitude after activity blockade is diminished in the Rab3A deletion mouse and abolished in the Rab3A Earlybird mouse which expresses a point mutant of Rab3A. We show that homeostatic plasticity at the neuromuscular junction does not depend on tumor necrosis factor , is not accompanied by an increase in the levels of VAChT, the vesicular transporter for ACh, and confirm that there is no increase in ACh receptors at the junction, three characteristics distinct from that of CNS homeostatic plasticity. Activity blockade does not produce time course changes in mepcs that would be consistent with a fusion pore mechanism. We conclude that Rab3A is involved in a novel presynaptic mechanism to homeostatically regulate the amount of transmitter in a quantum.

MRF4 belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix class of transcription factors and this and other members of its family profoundly influence skeletal muscle development. Less is known about the role of these factors in aging. As MRF4 is preferentially expressed in subsynaptic nuclei, we postulated it might play a role in maintenance of the neuromuscular junction. To test this hypothesis, we examined the junctional regions of 19-20-month-old mice and found decreased levels of SV2B, a marker of synaptic vesicles, in MRF4-null mice relative to controls. There was a corresponding decrease in grip strength in MRF4-null mice. Taken together, these data suggest that the intrinsic muscle factor, MRF4 plays an important role in maintenance of neuromuscular junctions.

Decision making can be regarded as the outcome of cognitive processes leading to the selection of a course of action among several alternatives. Borrowing a central measurement from information theory, Shannon entropy, we quantified the uncertainties produced by decisions of participants within an economic decision task under different configurations of reward probability and time. These descriptors were used to obtain blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal correlates of uncertainty and two clusters codifying the Shannon entropy of task configurations were identified: a large cluster including parts of the right middle cingulate cortex (MCC) and left and right pre-supplementary motor areas (pre-SMA) and a small cluster at the left anterior thalamus. Subsequent functional connectivity analyses using the psycho-physiological interactions model identified areas involved in the functional integration of uncertainty. Results indicate that clusters mostly located at frontal and temporal cortices experienced an increased connectivity with the right MCC and left and right pre-SMA as the uncertainty was higher. Furthermore, pre-SMA was also functionally connected to a rich set of areas, most of them associative areas located at occipital and parietal lobes. This study provides a map of the human brain segregation and integration (i.e., neural substrate and functional connectivity respectively) of the uncertainty associated to an economic decision making paradigm.
Insulin/IGF-I-like signaling (IIS) has both cell autonomous and non-autonomous functions. In some cases, targets through which IIS regulates cell-autonomous functions, such as cell growth and metabolism, have been identified. In contrast, targets for many non-autonomous IIS functions, such as C. elegans dauer morphogenesis, remain elusive. Here, we report the use of genomic and genetic approaches to identify potential non-autonomous targets of C. elegans IIS. First, we used transcriptional microarrays to identify target genes regulated non-autonomously by IIS in the intestine or in neurons. C. elegans IIS controls expression of a number of stress response genes, which were differentially regulated by tissue-restricted IIS. In particular, expression of sod-3, a MnSOD enzyme, was not regulated by tissue-restricted IIS on the microarrays, while expression of hsp-16 genes was rescued back to wildtype by tissue restricted IIS. One IIS target regulated non-autonomously by age-1 was cyp-35B1/dod-13, encoding a cytochrome P450. Genetic analysis of the cyp-35B1 promoter showed both DAF-16 and HSF-1 are direct regulators. Based on these findings, we propose that hsf-1 may participate in the pathways mediating non-autonomous activities of age-1 in C. elegans.
Humans are capable of learning numerous motor skills, but newly acquired skills may be abolished by subsequent learning. Here we ask what factors determine whether interference occurs in motor learning. We speculated that interference requires competing processes of synaptic plasticity in overlapping circuits and predicted specificity. To test this, subjects learned a ballistic motor task. Interference was observed following subsequent learning of an accuracy-tracking task, but only if the competing task involved the same muscles and movement direction. Interference was not observed from a non-learning task suggesting that interference requires competing learning. Subsequent learning of the competing task 4 h after initial learning did not cause interference suggesting disruption of early motor memory consolidation as one possible mechanism underlying interference. Repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of corticospinal motor output at intensities below movement threshold did not cause interference, whereas suprathreshold rTMS evoking motor responses and (re)afferent activation did. Finally, the experiments revealed that suprathreshold repetitive electrical stimulation of the agonist (but not antagonist) peripheral nerve caused interference. The present study is, to our knowledge, the first to demonstrate that peripheral nerve stimulation may cause interference. The finding underscores the importance of sensory feedback as error signals in motor learning. We conclude that interference requires competing plasticity in overlapping circuits. Interference is remarkably specific for circuits involved in a specific movement and it may relate to sensory error signals.
Self-awareness impairments are frequently mentioned as being responsible for the positive symptoms of schizophrenia spectrum disorders. However, the neural correlates of self-other distinction in this pathology are still poorly understood. In the present study, we developed an fMRI procedure in order to examine self-other distinction during speech exchange situations. Fifteen subjects with schizophrenia were compared to 15 matched controls. The results revealed an increased overlap between the self and non-self cortical maps in schizophrenia, in the medial frontal and medial parietal cortices, as well as in the right middle temporal cortex and the right inferior parietal lobule. Moreover, these neural structures showed less BOLD amplitude differences between the self and non-self conditions in the patients. These activation patterns were judged to be independent of mirror-like properties, familiarity or body-ownership processing. Significantly, the increase in the right IPL signal was found to correlate positively with the severity of first-rank symptoms, and thus could be considered a &quot;state-marker&quot; of schizophrenia, whereas temporal and medial parieto-frontal differences appear to be &quot;trait-markers&quot; of the disease. Such an increased overlap between self and non-self cortical maps might be considered a neuro-physiological signature of the well established self-awareness impairment in people suffering from schizophrenia.

Dynamic signaling networks are required to perform complex cellular processes. Structural and functional data now indicate the intriguing possibility that extracellular bacterial pathogens use catalytic scaffolds to assemble unique supramolecular signaling networks that effectively subvert key cellular processes in the host.
Neurons in medial frontal cortex have been found to distinguish between whether an animal or its partner is responding on a turn-taking task, but are they really the basis of a social learning mechanism?

Schistosomiasis (bilharzia) is a tropical disease caused by trematode parasites (Schistosoma) that affects hundreds of millions of people in the developing world. Currently only a single drug (praziquantel) is available to treat this disease, highlighting the importance of developing new techniques to study Schistosoma. While molecular advances, including RNA interference and the availability of complete genome sequences for two Schistosoma species, will help to revolutionize studies of these animals, an array of tools for visualizing the consequences of experimental perturbations on tissue integrity and development needs to be made widely available. To this end, we screened a battery of commercially available stains, antibodies and fluorescently labeled lectins, many of which have not been described previously for analyzing schistosomes, for their ability to label various cell and tissue types in the cercarial stage of S. mansoni. This analysis uncovered more than 20 new markers that label most cercarial tissues, including the tegument, the musculature, the protonephridia, the secretory system and the nervous system. Using these markers we present a high-resolution visual depiction of cercarial anatomy. Examining the effectiveness of a subset of these markers in S. mansoni adults and miracidia, we demonstrate the value of these tools for labeling tissues in a variety of life-cycle stages. The methodologies described here will facilitate functional analyses aimed at understanding fundamental biological processes in these parasites.
Preparing a goal directed movement often requires detailed analysis of our environment. When picking up an object, its orientation, size and relative distance are relevant parameters when preparing a successful grasp. It would therefore be beneficial if the motor system is able to influence early perception such that information processing needs for action control are met at the earliest possible stage. However, only a few studies reported (indirect) evidence for action-induced visual perception improvements. We therefore aimed to provide direct evidence for a feature-specific perceptual modulation during the planning phase of a grasping action. Human subjects were instructed to either grasp or point to a bar while simultaneously performing an orientation discrimination task. The bar could slightly change its orientation during grasping preparation. By analyzing discrimination response probabilities, we found increased perceptual sensitivity to orientation changes when subjects were instructed to grasp the bar, rather than point to it. As a control experiment, the same experiment was repeated using bar luminance changes, a feature that is not relevant for either grasping or pointing. Here, no differences in visual sensitivity between grasping and pointing were found. The present results constitute first direct evidence for increased perceptual sensitivity to a visual feature that is relevant for a certain skeletomotor act during the movement preparation phase. We speculate that such action-induced perception improvements are controlled by neuronal feedback mechanisms from cortical motor planning areas to early visual cortex, similar to what was recently established for spatial perception improvements shortly before eye movements.

Fetal exposure to environmental insults increases the susceptibility to late-onset neuropsychiatric disorders. Alcohol is listed as one of such prenatal environmental risk factors and known to exert devastating teratogenetic effects on the developing brain, leading to complex neurological and psychiatric symptoms observed in fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). Here, we performed a coordinated transcriptome analysis of human and mouse fetal cerebral cortices exposed to ethanol in vitro and in vivo, respectively. Up- and down-regulated genes conserved in the human and mouse models and the biological annotation of their expression profiles included many genes/terms related to neural development, such as cell proliferation, neuronal migration and differentiation, providing a reliable connection between the two species. Our data indicate that use of the combined rodent and human model systems provides an effective strategy to reveal and analyze gene expression changes inflicted by various physical and chemical environmental exposures during prenatal development. It also can potentially provide insight into the pathogenesis of environmentally caused brain disorders in humans.
Although some DNA methylation patterns are altered by steroid hormone exposure in the developing brain, less is known about how changes in steroid hormone levels influence DNA methylation patterns in the adult brain. Steroid hormones act in the adult brain to regulate gene expression. Specifically, the expression of the socially relevant peptide vasopressin (AVP) within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) of adult brain is dependent upon testosterone exposure. Castration dramatically reduces and testosterone replacement restores AVP expression within the BST. As decreases in mRNA expression are associated with increases in DNA promoter methylation, we explored the hypothesis that AVP expression in the adult brain is maintained through sustained epigenetic modifications of the AVP gene promoter. We find that castration of adult male rats resulted in decreased AVP mRNA expression and increased methylation of specific CpG sites within the AVP promoter in the BST. Similarly, castration significantly increased estrogen receptor  (ER) mRNA expression and decreased ER promoter methylation within the BST. These changes were prevented by testosterone replacement. This suggests that the DNA promoter methylation status of some steroid responsive genes in the adult brain is actively maintained by the presence of circulating steroid hormones. The maintenance of methylated or demethylated states of some genes in the adult brain by the presence of steroid hormones may play a role in the homeostatic regulation of behaviorally relevant systems.

Macroautophagy is a bulk degradation system conserved in all eukaryotic cells. A ubiquitin-like protein, Atg8, and its homologues are essential for autophagosome formation and act as a landmark for selective autophagy of aggregated proteins and damaged organelles. In this study, we report evidence demonstrating that OATL1, a putative Rab guanosine triphosphatase-activating protein (GAP), is a novel binding partner of Atg8 homologues in mammalian cells. OATL1 is recruited to isolation membranes and autophagosomes through direct interaction with Atg8 homologues and is involved in the fusion between autophagosomes and lysosomes through its GAP activity. We further provide evidence that Rab33B, an Atg16L1-binding protein, is a target substrate of OATL1 and is involved in the fusion between autophagosomes and lysosomes, the same as OATL1. Because both its GAP activity and its Atg8 homologue-binding activity are required for OATL1 to function, we propose a model that OATL1 uses Atg8 homologues as a scaffold to exert its GAP activity and to regulate autophagosomal maturation.

The use of adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) in neurobehavioral research is rapidly expanding. The present large-scale study applied the newest video-tracking and data-mining technologies to further examine zebrafish anxiety-like phenotypes. Here, we generated temporal and spatial three-dimensional (3D) reconstructions of zebrafish locomotion, globally assessed behavioral profiles evoked by several anxiogenic and anxiolytic manipulations, mapped individual endpoints to 3D reconstructions, and performed cluster analysis to reconfirm behavioral correlates of high- and low-anxiety states. The application of 3D swim path reconstructions consolidates behavioral data (while increasing data density) and provides a novel way to examine and represent zebrafish behavior. It also enables rapid optimization of video tracking settings to improve quantification of automated parameters, and suggests that spatiotemporal organization of zebrafish swimming activity can be affected by various experimental manipulations in a manner predicted by their anxiolytic or anxiogenic nature. Our approach markedly enhances the power of zebrafish behavioral analyses, providing innovative framework for high-throughput 3D phenotyping of adult zebrafish behavior.
Nanowires (NWs) are attracting more and more interest due to their potential cellular applications, such as delivery of compounds or sensing platforms. Arrays of vertical indium-arsenide (InAs) NWs are interfaced with human embryonic kidney cells and rat embryonic dorsal root ganglion neurons. A selection of critical cell functions and pathways are shown not to be impaired, including cell adhesion, membrane integrity, intracellular enzyme activity, DNA uptake, cytosolic and membrane protein expression, and the neuronal maturation pathway. The results demonstrate the low invasiveness of InAs NW arrays, which, combined with the unique physical properties of InAs, open up their potential for cellular investigations.
Many patients with refractory epilepsy are treated with polytherapy, and nearly 15% of epilepsy patients receive two or more anti-convulsant agents. The anti-convulsant stiripentol is used as an add-on treatment for the childhood epilepsy syndrome known as severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy (Dravet syndrome). Stiripentol has multiple mechanisms of action, both enhancing GABA(A) receptors and reducing activity of metabolic enzymes that break down other drugs. Stiripentol is typically co-administered with other anti-convulsants such as benzodiazepines which also act through GABA(A) receptor modulation. Stiripentol slows the metabolism of some of these drugs through inhibition of a variety of cytochrome P450 enzymes, but could also influence their effects on GABAergic neurotransmission. Is it rational to co-administer drugs which can act through the same target? To examine the potential interaction between these modulators, we transiently transfected HEK-293T cells to produce 332L or 33 recombinant GABA(A) receptors. Using whole-cell patch clamp recordings, we measured the response to each benzodiazepine alone and in combination with a maximally effective concentration of stiripentol. We compared the responses to four different benzodiazepines: diazepam, clonazepam, clobazam and norclobazam. In all cases we found that these modulators were equally effective in the presence and absence of stiripentol. The -containing receptors were insensitive to modulation by the benzodiazepines, which did not affect potentiation by stiripentol. These data suggest that stiripentol and the benzodiazepines act independently at GABA(A) receptors and that polytherapy could be expected to increase the maximum effect beyond either drug alone, even without consideration of changes in metabolism.
To evaluate sex differences in protein expression in the heart, we performed Western blot studies on a subset of Heart Rhythm Determinant (HRD) proteins. We examined key components of a variety of types of mechanical and electrical junctions including, connexin43, plakophilin-2, N-cadherin and plakoglobin, ankyrin-2 and actin. We describe novel findings in sex differences in cardiac protein expression and membrane localization. For most proteins examined, sex differences were significantly more pronounced in the membrane compartment than in overall expression. These studies extend our previous findings in microarray studies to demonstrate that sex differences in gene expression are likely to confer distinct functional properties on male and female myocardium.
Papaverine, an inhibitor of phosphodiesterase (PDE) 10A, is gaining attention for its potential in the treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia. However, the precise mechanisms underlying the putative neuroprotective/neurotrophic actions of papaverine remain unclear. Thus, we investigated the effects of papaverine on nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. Papaverine potentiated NGF-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, the selective PDE10A inhibitor MP-10 had no effect on NGF-induced neurite outgrowth. The potentiation of NGF-induced neurite outgrowth by papaverine was blocked by the PLC- inhibitor U73122. Furthermore, papaverine's potentiation of NGF-induced neurite outgrowth was also blocked by the co-administration of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptor antagonists (xestospongin C and 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB)) and by reduced expression of IP(3) receptor gene (i.e., itpr1 and itpr3) by siRNA. Our findings suggest that papaverine could potentiate NGF-induced neurite outgrowth, and that activation of PLC- and IP(3) receptors might be involved in the mechanism underlying papaverine's potentiation of neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells.
We report that, in the rat hippocampus, learning leads to a significant increase in extracellular lactate levels that derive from glycogen, an energy reserve selectively localized in astrocytes. Astrocytic glycogen breakdown and lactate release are essential for long-term but not short-term memory formation, and for the maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic strength elicited in vivo. Disrupting the expression of the astrocytic lactate transporters monocarboxylate transporter 4 (MCT4) or MCT1 causes amnesia, which, like LTP impairment, is rescued by L-lactate but not equicaloric glucose. Disrupting the expression of the neuronal lactate transporter MCT2 also leads to amnesia that is unaffected by either L-lactate or glucose, suggesting that lactate import into neurons is necessary for long-term memory. Glycogenolysis and astrocytic lactate transporters are also critical for the induction of molecular changes required for memory formation, including the induction of phospho-CREB, Arc, and phospho-cofilin. We conclude that astrocyte-neuron lactate transport is required for long-term memory formation.
Because Varp (VPS9-ankyrin-repeat protein)/Ankrd27 specifically binds two small GTPases, Rab32 and Rab38, which redundantly regulate the trafficking of melanogenic enzymes in mammalian epidermal melanocytes, it has recently been implicated in the regulation of trafficking of a melanogenic enzyme tyrosinase-related protein 1 (Tyrp1) to melanosomes. However, the functional interaction between Rab32/38 and Varp and the involvement of the VPS9 domain (i.e. Rab21-GEF domain) in Tyrp1 trafficking have never been elucidated. In this study, we succeeded in identifying critical residues of Rab32/38 and Varp that are critical for the formation of the Rab32/38Varp complex by performing Ala-based site-directed mutagenesis, and we discovered that a conserved Val residue in the switch II region of Rab32(Val-92) and Rab38(Val-78) is required for Varp binding activity and that its point mutant, Rab38(V78A), does not support Tyrp1 trafficking in Rab32/38-deficient melanocytes. We also identified two critical residues for Rab32/38 binding in the Varp ANKR1 domain and demonstrated that their point mutants, Varp(Q509A) and Varp(Y550A), do not support peripheral melanosomal distribution of Tyrp1 in Varp-deficient cells. Interestingly, the VPS9 domain point mutants, Varp(D310A) and Varp(Y350A), did support Tyrp1 trafficking in Varp-deficient cells, and knockdown of Rab21 had no effect on Tyrp1 distribution. We also found evidence for the functional interaction between a vesicle SNARE VAMP7/TI-VAMP and Varp in Tyrp1 trafficking. These results collectively indicated that both the Rab32/38 binding activity and VAMP7 binding activity of Varp are essential for trafficking of Tyrp1 in melanocytes but that activation of Rab21 by the VPS9 domain is not necessary for Tyrp1 trafficking.
Intrastriatal grafts of stem cell-derived dopamine (DA) neurons induce behavioral recovery in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), but how they functionally integrate in host neural circuitries is poorly understood. Here, Wnt5a-overexpressing neural stem cells derived from embryonic ventral mesencephalon of tyrosine hydroxylase-GFP transgenic mice were expanded as neurospheres and transplanted into organotypic cultures of wild type mouse striatum. Differentiated GFP-labeled DA neurons in the grafts exhibited mature neuronal properties, including spontaneous firing of action potentials, presence of post-synaptic currents, and functional expression of DA D autoreceptors. These properties resembled those recorded from identical cells in acute slices of intrastriatal grafts in the 6-hydroxy-DA-induced mouse PD model and from DA neurons in intact substantia nigra. Optogenetic activation or inhibition of grafted cells and host neurons using channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) and halorhodopsin (NpHR), respectively, revealed complex, bi-directional synaptic interactions between grafted cells and host neurons and extensive synaptic connectivity within the graft. Our data demonstrate for the first time using optogenetics that ectopically grafted stem cell-derived DA neurons become functionally integrated in the DA-denervated striatum. Further optogenetic dissection of the synaptic wiring between grafted and host neurons will be crucial to clarify the cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying behavioral recovery as well as adverse effects following stem cell-based DA cell replacement strategies in PD.

G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which includes the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor (GnRHR), comprises the largest family of validated drug targets-more than half of all approved drugs derive their benefits by selective targeting of GPCRs. Most drugs in this class are either agonists or antagonists of GPCRs and high throughput screens (HTSs) have typically been designed and performed with a view toward identification of such compounds as lead drug candidates. This manuscript presents the case that valuable drugs which effect the trafficking of GPCRs may have been overlooked because pharmacoperones have been selected from existing screens that identify agonists and antagonists. A &quot;gain of activity assay&quot; is proposed; this assay relies on the expression of a mutant of the GnRHR that is known to be rescuable by pharmacoperone drugs, and which is restored to activity in their presence. Accordingly, &quot;hits&quot; are identified by the appearance of activity. The gene for the mutant is under control of tetracycline and may be prevented from being expressed. This is a valuable feature since it allows false positives to be identified. Such drugs will show apparent activity whether or not the mutant is expressed. This assay will enable identification of these drugs from chemical libraries and does not rely on their activity as agonists or antagonists.
The key cytopathologies in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients include mitochondrial dysfunction and energy hypometabolism, which are likely caused by the accumulation of small aggregates of amyloid- (A) peptides. Thus, targeting these two abnormalities of the AD brain may hold promising therapeutic value for delaying the onset of AD. In his paper, we discuss two potential approaches to delay the onset of AD. The first is the use of low dose of diaminophenothiazins (redox active agents) to prevent mitochondrial dysfunction and to attenuate energy hypometabolism. Diaminophenothiazines enhance mitochondrial metabolic activity and heme synthesis, both key factors in intermediary metabolism of the AD brain.The second is to use the naturally occurring osmolytes to prevent the formation of toxic forms of A and prevent oxidative stress. Scientific evidence suggests that both approaches may change course of the basic mechanism of neurodegeneration in AD. Osmolytes are brain metabolites which accumulate in tissues at relatively high concentrations following stress conditions. Osmolytes enhance thermodynamic stability of proteins by stabilizing natively-folded protein conformation, thus preventing aggregation without perturbing other cellular processes. Osmolytes may inhibit the formation of A oligomers in vivo, thus preventing the formation of soluble oligomers. The potential significance of combining diaminophenothiazins and osmolytes to treat AD is discussed.

We characterized the distribution of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subunits and the transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) -2 and -4 in adult rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) using a method that separates plasma membranes into synaptic membrane-enriched and extrasynaptic membrane-enriched fractions. We also measured GluA1 phosphorylated at serine 845 (pS845 GluA1) and serine 831 (pS831 GluA1). GluA1-3 protein levels and pS831 GluA1/total GluA1 were higher in synaptic membranes. However, pS845 GluA1/total GluA1 was higher in extrasynaptic membranes, consistent with a role for S845 phosphorylation in GluA1 insertion at extrasynaptic sites. Homeric GluA1 receptors were detected in extrasynaptic membranes, consistent with evidence for extrasynaptic Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs in other systems. The TARP -2 was enriched in synaptic membranes, whereas -4 was mainly found in extrasynaptic membranes, suggesting distinct roles for these proteins in the NAc. These experiments provide fundamental information that will aid in the interpretation of studies on AMPAR-related plasticity in the NAc.
The ability of neurons to process synaptic inputs depends critically on their passive electrical properties. The intracellular resistivity, R(i), is one of the parameters that determine passive properties, yet few experiments have explored how changes in R(i) might affect synaptic integration. In this work, I addressed this issue by using targeted dendritic occlusion to locally increase R(i) in cerebellar Purkinje cells and examining the consequences of this manipulation for the summation of synaptic inputs. To achieve dendritic occlusion, I used two glass micropipettes to gently pinch the dendritic trunk close to the soma. This pinching produced stereotypical changes in the responses to test pulses applied at the soma under voltage and current clamp. A simple model confirmed that these changes were due to increases in R(i) in the dendritic trunk. These localized increases in R(i) produced striking alterations in the shapes of postsynaptic potentials at the soma, increasing their amplitude and accelerating their decay kinetics. As a consequence, dendritic occlusion sharpened temporal precision during the summation of synaptic inputs. These findings highlight the importance of local changes in intracellular resistivity for the passive electrical properties of neurons, with implications for their ability to process synaptic information.

The hypothalamic arcuate nucleus is a complex structure containing both orexigenic and anorexigenic neurons, coordinately regulated by leptin and energy state. In their recent Nature Neuroscience study, Aponte et al. (2011) use optogenetic technology to provide a glimpse into the consequences of exclusive activation of either NPY/AgRP or POMC neurons.
Large alterations in transcription accompany neurodegeneration in polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases. These pathologies manifest both general polyQ toxicity and mutant protein-specific effects. In this study, we report that the fat tumour suppressor gene mediates neurodegeneration induced by the polyQ protein Atrophin. We have monitored early transcriptional alterations in a Drosophila model of Dentatorubral-pallidoluysian Atrophy and found that polyQ Atrophins downregulate fat. Fat protects from neurodegeneration and Atrophin toxicity through the Hippo kinase cascade. Fat/Hippo signalling does not provoke neurodegeneration by stimulating overgrowth; rather, it alters the autophagic flux in photoreceptor neurons, thereby affecting cell homeostasis. Our data thus provide a crucial insight into the specific mechanism of a polyQ disease and reveal an unexpected neuroprotective role of the Fat/Hippo pathway.
The execution of motor behavior influences concurrent visual action observation and especially the perception of biological motion. The neural mechanisms underlying this interaction between perception and motor execution are not exactly known. In addition, the available experimental evidence is partially inconsistent because previous studies have reported facilitation as well as impairments of action perception by concurrent execution. Exploiting a novel virtual reality paradigm, we investigated the spatiotemporal tuning of the influence of motor execution on the perception of biological motion within a signal-detection task. Human observers were presented with point-light stimuli that were controlled by their own movements. Participants had to detect a point-light arm in a scrambled mask, either while executing waving movements or without concurrent motor execution (baseline). The temporal and spatial coherence between the observed and executed movements was parametrically varied. We found a systematic tuning of the facilitatory versus inhibitory influences of motor execution on biological motion detection with respect to the temporal and the spatial congruency between observed and executed movements. Specifically, we found a gradual transition between facilitatory and inhibitory interactions for decreasing temporal synchrony and spatial congruency. This result provides evidence for a spatiotemporally highly selective coupling between dynamic motor representations and neural structures involved in the visual processing of biological motion. In addition, our study offers a unifying explanation that reconciles contradicting results about modulatory effects of motor execution on biological motion perception in previous studies.
Brainstem A2/C2 catecholamine (CA) neurons in the solitary tract nucleus (NTS) are thought to play an important role in the control of food intake and other homeostatic functions. We have previously demonstrated that these neurons, which send extensive projections to brain regions involved in the regulation of appetite, are strongly and directly activated by solitary tract (ST) visceral afferents. Ghrelin, a potent orexigenic peptide released from the stomach, is proposed to act in part through modulating NTS CA neurons but the underlying cellular mechanisms are unknown. Here, we identified CA neurons using transgenic mice that express enhanced green fluorescent protein driven by the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter (TH-EGFP). We then determined how ghrelin modulates TH-EGFP neurons using patch-clamp techniques in a horizontal brain slice preparation. Ghrelin inhibited the frequency of spontaneous glutamate inputs (spontaneous EPSCs) onto TH-EGFP neurons, including cholecystokinin-sensitive neurons, an effect blocked by the GHSR1 antagonist, d-Lys-3-GHRP-6. This resulted in a decrease in the basal firing rate of NTS TH-EGFP neurons, an effect blocked by the glutamate antagonist NBQX. Ghrelin also dose-dependently inhibited the amplitude of ST afferent evoked EPSCs (ST-EPSCs) in TH-EGFP NTS neurons, decreasing the success rate for ST-evoked action potentials. In addition, ghrelin decreased the frequency of mini-EPSCs suggesting its actions are presynaptic to reduce glutamate release. Last, inhibition by ghrelin of the ST-EPSCs was significantly increased by an 18 h fast. These results demonstrate a potential mechanism by which ghrelin inhibits NTS TH neurons through a pathway whose responsiveness is increased during fasting.
The epigenetic identity of oligodendrocytes is modulated by posttranslational modifications of histones. Acetylation of histone H3 results from the balance between the activity of histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases and modulates transcriptional activation. We have previously shown that, in rodents, histone deacetylation favors oligodendrocyte differentiation, whereas acetylation is associated with increased levels of transcriptional inhibitors of oligodendrocyte differentiation. Here, we report, in humans brains, a shift toward histone acetylation in the white matter of the frontal lobes of aged subjects and in patients with chronic multiple sclerosis (MS). Increased immunoreactivity for acetylated histone H3 was observed in the nuclei of NogoA+ oligodendrocytes in a subset of MS samples. These changes were associated with high levels of transcriptional inhibitors of oligodendrocyte differentiation (i.e., TCF7L2, ID2, and SOX2) and higher HAT transcript levels (i.e., CBP, P300) in female MS patients compared with non-neurological controls and correlated with disease duration. Chromatin immunoprecipitation from samples of MS patients revealed enrichment of acetyl-histone H3 at the promoter of the increased target genes (i.e., TCF7L2). The data in chronic lesions contrasted with findings in early MS lesions, where a marked oligodendroglial histone deacetylation was observed. Together, these data suggest that histone deacetylation is a process that occurs at the early stages of the disease and whose efficiency decreases with disease duration.
Spaced patterns of repetitive synaptic activation often result in a long-lasting, protein synthesis-dependent potentiation of synaptic transmission, known as late-phase long-term potentiation (L-LTP) that may serve as a substrate for long-term memory. Behavioral studies showed that posttraining blockade of NMDA subtype of the glutamate receptor (NMDAR) impaired long-term memory, although NMDAR activation is generally known to be required during LTP induction. In this study, we found that the establishment of L-LTP in vivo requires NMDAR activation within a critical time window after LTP induction. In the developing visual system of Xenopus laevis tadpole, L-LTP of retinotectal synapses could be induced by three episodes of theta burst stimulation (TBS) of the optic nerve with 5 min spacing (&quot;spaced TBS&quot;), but not by three TBS episodes applied en masse or spaced with intervals 10 min. Within a time window of 30 min after the spaced TBS, local perfusion of the tectum with NMDAR antagonist d-AP5 or Ca(2+)-chelator EGTA-AM impaired the establishment of L-LTP, indicating the requirement of postinduction activation of NMDAR/Ca(2+) signaling. Moreover, inhibiting spontaneous spiking activity in the tectum by local application of tetrodotoxin (TTX) prevented L-LTP when TTX was applied for 15 min immediately after the spaced TBS but not 1 h later, whereas the same postinduction TTX application in the retina had no effect. These findings offer new insights into the synaptic basis for the requirement of postlearning activation of NMDARs and point to the importance of postlearning spontaneous circuit activity in memory formation.
The human cerebral cortex is a complex network of functionally specialized regions interconnected by axonal fibers, but the organizational principles underlying cortical connectivity remain unknown. Here, we report evidence that one such principle for functional cortical networks involves finding a balance between maximizing communication efficiency and minimizing connection cost, referred to as optimization of network cost-efficiency. We measured spontaneous fluctuations of the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal using functional magnetic resonance imaging in healthy monozygotic (16 pairs) and dizygotic (13 pairs) twins and characterized cost-efficient properties of brain network functional connectivity between 1041 distinct cortical regions. At the global network level, 60% of the interindividual variance in cost-efficiency of cortical functional networks was attributable to additive genetic effects. Regionally, significant genetic effects were observed throughout the cortex in a largely bilateral pattern, including bilateral posterior cingulate and medial prefrontal cortices, dorsolateral prefrontal and superior parietal cortices, and lateral temporal and inferomedial occipital regions. Genetic effects were stronger for cost-efficiency than for other metrics considered, and were more clearly significant in functional networks operating in the 0.09-0.18 Hz frequency interval than at higher or lower frequencies. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that brain networks evolved to satisfy competitive selection criteria of maximizing efficiency and minimizing cost, and that optimization of network cost-efficiency represents an important principle for the brain's functional organization.
Frontal cortical regions are activated by food-associated stimuli, and this activation appears to be dysregulated in individuals with eating disorders. Nevertheless, frontal control of basic unconditioned feeding responses remains poorly understood. Here we show that hyperphagia can be driven by -opioid receptor stimulation in restricted regions of ventral medial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex. In both ad libitum-fed and food-restricted male Sprague Dawley rats, bilateral infusions of the -opioid agonist [d-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) markedly increased intake of standard rat chow. When given a choice between palatable fat-enriched versus carbohydrate-enriched test diets, intra-vmPFC DAMGO infusions selectively increased carbohydrate intake, even in rats with a baseline fat preference. Rats also exhibited motor hyperactivity characterized by rapid switching between brief bouts of investigatory and ingestive behaviors. Intra-vmPFC DAMGO affected neither water intake nor nonspecific oral behavior. Similar DAMGO infusions into neighboring areas of lateral orbital or anterior motor cortex had minimal effects on feeding. Neither stimulation of vmPFC-localized -opioid, -opioid, dopaminergic, serotonergic, or noradrenergic receptors, nor antagonism of D1, 5HT1A, or - or -adrenoceptors, reproduced the profile of DAMGO effects. Muscimol-mediated inactivation of the vmPFC, and intra-vmPFC stimulation of -opioid receptors or blockade of 5-HT2A (5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A) receptors, suppressed motor activity and increased feeding bout duration-a profile opposite to that seen with DAMGO. Hence, -opioid-induced hyperphagia and carbohydrate intake can be elicited with remarkable pharmacological and behavioral specificity from discrete subterritories of the frontal cortex. These findings may have implications for understanding affect-driven feeding and loss of restraint in eating disorders.
The brainstem auditory pathway is obligatory for all aural information. Brainstem auditory neurons must encode the level and timing of sounds, as well as their time-dependent spectral properties, the fine structure, and envelope, which are essential for sound discrimination. This study focused on envelope coding in the two cochlear nuclei of the barn owl, nucleus angularis (NA) and nucleus magnocellularis (NM). NA and NM receive input from bifurcating auditory nerve fibers and initiate processing pathways specialized in encoding interaural time (ITD) and level (ILD) differences, respectively. We found that NA neurons, although unable to accurately encode stimulus phase, lock more strongly to the stimulus envelope than NM units. The spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) of NA neurons exhibit a pre-excitatory suppressive field. Using multilinear regression analysis and computational modeling, we show that this feature of STRFs can account for enhanced across-trial response reliability, by locking spikes to the stimulus envelope. Our findings indicate a dichotomy in envelope coding between the time and intensity processing pathways as early as at the level of the cochlear nuclei. This allows the ILD processing pathway to encode envelope information with greater fidelity than the ITD processing pathway. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the properties of the STRFs of the neurons can be quantitatively related to spike timing reliability.
Neuronal damage induced by ongoing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection was investigated in humanized NOD/scid-IL-2R(c)(null) mice transplanted at birth with human CD34-positive hematopoietic stem cells. Mice infected at 5 months of age and followed for up to 15 weeks maintained significant plasma viral loads and showed reduced numbers of CD4(+) T-cells. Prospective serial proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy tests showed selective reductions in cortical N-acetyl aspartate in infected animals. Diffusion tensor imaging revealed structural changes in cortical gray matter. Postmortem immunofluorescence brain tissue examinations for neuronal and glial markers, captured by multispectral imaging microscopy and quantified by morphometric and fluorescence emission, showed regional reduction of neuronal soma and synaptic architectures. This was evidenced by loss of microtubule-associated protein 2, synaptophysin, and neurofilament antigens. This study is the first, to our knowledge, demonstrating lost neuronal integrity after HIV-1 infection in humanized mice. As such, the model permits studies of the relationships between ongoing viral replication and virus-associated neurodegeneration.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a popular method for studying causal relationships between neural activity and behavior. However, its mode of action remains controversial, and so far there is no framework to explain its wide range of facilitatory and inhibitory behavioral effects. While some theoretical accounts suggest that TMS suppresses neuronal processing, other competing accounts propose that the effects of TMS result from the addition of noise to neuronal processing. Here we exploited the stochastic resonance phenomenon to distinguish these theoretical accounts and determine how TMS affects neuronal processing. Specifically, we showed that online TMS can induce stochastic resonance in the human brain. At low intensity, TMS facilitated the detection of weak motion signals, but with higher TMS intensities and stronger motion signals, we found only impairment in detection. These findings suggest that TMS acts by adding noise to neuronal processing, at least in an online TMS protocol. Importantly, such stochastic resonance effects may also explain why TMS parameters that under normal circumstances impair behavior can induce behavioral facilitations when the stimulated area is in an adapted or suppressed state.
Light is a versatile and precise means to control neuronal excitability. The recent introduction of light sensitive effectors such as channel-rhodopsin and caged neurotransmitters have led to interests in developing better means to control patterns of light in space and time that are useful for experimental neuroscience. One conventional strategy, employed in confocal and 2-photon microscopy, is to focus light to a diffraction limited spot and then scan that single spot sequentially over the region of interest. This approach becomes problematic if large areas have to be stimulated within a brief time window, a problem more applicable to photostimulation than for imaging. An alternate strategy is to project the complete spatial pattern on the target with the aid of a digital micromirror device (DMD). The DMD approach is appealing because the hardware components are relatively inexpensive and is supported by commercial interests. Because such a system is not available for upright microscopes, we will discuss the critical issues in the construction and operations of such a DMD system. Even though we will be primarily describing the construction of the system for UV photolysis, the modifications for building the much simpler visible light system for optogenetic experiments will also be provided. The UV photolysis system was used to carryout experiments to study a fundamental question in neuroscience, how are spatially distributed inputs integrated across distal dendritic branch points. The results suggest that integration can be non-linear across branch points and the supralinearity is largely mediated by NMDA receptors.

Genetics and the neurosciences are changing the knowledge base of psychiatry. The authors of this commentary argue that if psychiatry is to meet the considerable challenges associated with assimilating the rapid advance of those sciences and populating the field with new leaders who will contribute to such advances, fundamental problems in psychiatric education and training must be addressed. The authors argue that three domains in particular require change--an overemphasis on the outmoded diagnostic system, a residual attachment to archaic psychoanalytic constructs, and an unwarranted confidence in current therapeutic capabilities. They then propose first steps aimed at remedying each domain. The authors suggest increased curricular emphasis on taxonomic approaches distinct from that of the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders system, enhanced attention to and teaching of core cognitive neuroscientific concepts, and a concerted emphasis on the development of skills needed for critical evaluation of the empiric bases of therapeutics. They conclude that progress in psychiatry requires that educators shift their emphases toward what is currently known and being learned--including the scientific sophistication needed to assess such claims of knowledge--and away from taxonomic and conceptual systems that are demonstrably flawed, if not simply wrong.




Placental growth factor (PlGF) is an angiogenic factor that belongs to the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) family. Besides its well known capacity to potentiate the angiogenic action of VEGF, PlGF also participates in inflammatory processes by attracting and activating monocytes; it plays therefore more specifically a role in pathological conditions. PIGF and its two receptors, VEGFR-1 and neuropilins (NRPs), are expressed in the brain and increase after experimental stroke, but their precise functions in the nervous system remain underexplored. In this review article, we summarize present knowledge on the role of PlGF in various nervous system disease processes. Given the available data, P1GF has neuroprotective and neurotrophic properties that make it an actor of considerable interest in the pathophysiology and potentially in the therapy of degenerative and traumatic brain or spinal cord diseases.

Current understanding of brain plasticity has lead to new approaches in ischemic stroke rehabilitation. Stroke units that combine good medical and nursing care with task-oriented intense training in an environment that provides confidence, stimulation and motivation significantly improve outcome. Repetitive trans-cranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), and trans-cranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) are applied in rehabilitation of motor function. The long-term effect, optimal way of stimulation and possibly efficacy in cognitive rehabilitation need evaluation. Methods based on multisensory integration of motor, cognitive, and perceptual processes including action observation, mental training, and virtual reality are being tested. Different approaches of intensive aphasia training are described. Recent data on intensive melodic intonation therapy indicate that even patients with very severe non-fluent aphasia can regain speech through homotopic white matter tract plasticity. Music therapy is applied in motor and cognitive rehabilitation. To avoid the confounding effect of spontaneous improvement, most trials are preformed 3 months post stroke. Randomized controlled trials starting earlier after strokes are needed. More attention should be given to stroke heterogeneity, cognitive rehabilitation, and social adjustment and to genetic differences, including the role of BDNF polymorphism in brain plasticity.





Vertigo and dizziness are not independent disease entities, but instead symptoms of various diseases. Accordingly, a variety of treatment approaches are required. Here we review the most relevant drugs for managing dizziness, vertigo, and nystagmus syndromes. It is important to differentiate symptomatic treatment of nausea and vomiting with, for example, dimenhydrinate and benzodiazepines, and prophylactic treatment of motion sickness with scopolamine from a causal therapy of the underlying disorders. Examples of such causal therapy include aminopyridines for downbeat nystagmus and episodic ataxia type 2; carbamazepine for vestibular paroxysmia, paroxsymal dysarthria and ataxia in multiple sclerosis, and superior oblique myokymia; betahistine, dexamethasone, and gentamicin for Menire's disease; gabapentin and memantine for different forms of acquired and congenital nystagmus; corticosteroids for acute vestibular neuritis and Cogan's syndrome; metoprolol and topiramate for vestibular migraine; and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as paroxetine for phobic postural vertigo. The clinical entities are briefly described, the various medications are discussed in alphabetical order, and dosage, major side effects, contraindications, and alternative medications of each drug are displayed in boxes for easy reference.





The AMPHORA Project is a 4 years project funded by the 7th Framework Programme of the European Commission which aims to contribute with new evidence on scarcely explored or unexplored areas of alcohol consumption and alcohol-related harm in Europe. In this introductory article we describe the background of the Project and its main features. The research areas covered by AMPHORA are wide and diverse. Some of the most relevant are: an update on European epidemiological data; the definition of standard common indicators of alcohol consumption and harm; the measurement of the strength of alcohol policies; the study of contextual determinants of alcohol consumption, the analysis of the impact of marketing on youth; the availability of treatments at a European level; and two areas of harm reduction (contamination of illegal or surrogate alcohols and the reduction of harm in drinking venues).
Medical professionals need to keep on learning as part of their everyday work to deliver high-quality health care. Although the importance of physicians' learning is widely recognized, few studies have investigated how they learn in the workplace. Based on insights from deliberate practice research, this study examined the activities physicians engage in during their work that might further their professional development. As deliberate practice requires a focused effort to improve performance, the study also examined the goals underlying this behaviour. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 50 internal medicine physicians: 19 residents, 18 internists working at a university hospital, and 13 working at a non-university hospital. The results showed that learning in medical practice was very much embedded in clinical work. Most relevant learning activities were directly related to patient care rather than motivated by competence improvement goals. Advice and feedback were sought when necessary to provide this care. Performance standards were tied to patients' conditions. The patients encountered and the discussions with colleagues about patients were valued most for professional development, while teaching and updating activities were also valued in this respect. In conclusion, physicians' learning is largely guided by practical experience rather than deliberately sought. When professionals interact in diagnosing and treating patients to achieve high-quality care, their experiences contribute to expertise development. However, much could be gained from managing learning opportunities more explicitly. We offer suggestions for increasing the focus on learning in medical practice and further research.
Here we incorporate recent advances in Drosophila neurogenetics and &quot;optogenetics&quot; into neuroscience laboratory exercises. We used the light-activated ion channel channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) and tissue-specific genetic expression techniques to study the neural basis of behavior in Drosophila larvae. We designed and implemented exercises using inexpensive, easy-to-use systems for delivering blue light pulses with fine temporal control. Students first examined the behavioral effects of activating glutamatergic neurons in Drosophila larvae and then recorded excitatory junctional potentials (EJPs) mediated by ChR2 activation at the larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Comparison of electrically and light-evoked EJPs demonstrates that the amplitudes and time courses of light-evoked EJPs are not significantly different from those generated by electrical nerve stimulation. These exercises introduce students to new genetic technology for remotely manipulating neural activity, and they simplify the process of recording EJPs at the Drosophila larval NMJ. Relatively little research work has been done using ChR2 in Drosophila, so students have opportunities to test novel hypotheses and make tangible contributions to the scientific record. Qualitative and quantitative assessment of student experiences suggest that these exercises help convey principles of synaptic transmission while also promoting integrative and inquiry-based studies of genetics, cellular physiology, and animal behavior.
Communicating physiology to the general public and popularizing science can be tremendously rewarding activities. Providing relevant and compelling points of linkage, however, between the scientific experiences and the interests of the general public can be challenging. One avenue for popularizing science is to link scientific concepts to images, personalities, and icons in popular culture. Currently, comic book superhero movies and television shows are extremely popular, and Batman was used as the vehicle for popularizing concepts of exercise science, neuroscience, and physiology in my recent book, Becoming Batman: the Possibility of a Superhero. The objective of this book was to bring scientific understanding to the broader public by using the physical image and impression everyone has of Batman and his abilities and then connecting this to the underlying science. The objective of this article is to share some of the details of the process and the positive and negative outcomes of using such an approach with other academics who may be interested in similar activities. It is my goal that by sharing this experience I may stimulate like-minded readers to initiate their own similar projects and to also be emboldened to try and integrate popular culture touchstones in their own teaching practice.
Gender-specific differences in longevity are reported across species and are mediated by mechanisms not entirely understood. In C57Bl/6 mice, commonly used in aging research, males typically outlive females. Since in these animals modest but prolonged reduction of core body (Tc) increased life span, we hypothesized that differential Tc may contribute to sex-specific longevity. Here, we compared the circadian profiles of Tc and locomotor activity (LMA) of male and female C57Bl/6 mice. Since Tc and LMA normally change with age, measurements were carried out in young (3 months) as well as in old (24 months) mice. In young females, Tc was influenced by estrous but was overall higher than in males. This difference was larger in old animals after age eliminated the variations associated with estrous. Although temperature homeostasis is regulated centrally by the sexually dimorphic hypothalamic preoptic area, these differences were uniquely dependent on the gonads. In fact, bilateral gonadectomy abolished the effects of estrous and increased resting Tc in males eliminating all sex-specific differences in Tc and LMA. These effects were only partially mimicked by hormonal replacement as Tc was affected by progesterone and to a lesser extent by estrogen but not by testosterone. Thus, gonadal-dependent modulation of Tc may be one of the physiological parameters contributing to gender-specific differences in longevity.



Despite growing recognition that Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents a global public health and social care crisis, diagnosis is frequently slow and many patients still receive no treatment at all. Of those who do receive treatment, many remain on lower than recommended doses. The Alzheimer's disease International Global Charter promotes awareness and understanding of AD, stressing the importance of optimal treatment. However, the definition of &quot;optimal treatment&quot; is unclear. Since cholinesterase inhibitors became available nearly 20 years ago, clinicians have developed a variety of protocols on the basis of clinical experiences. This review considers what is optimal for several aspects of cholinesterase inhibitor therapy, taking into account initiation strategies, dosages, modes of drug delivery (e.g., oral vs. transdermal), and treatment durations. Regardless of management approach, individuals with AD, their families, and caregivers have a right to a timely diagnosis and access to best available treatment.


Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is involved in the one-carbon cycle, which is of importance for nucleotide synthesis and methylation of DNA, membranes, proteins and lipids. The MTHFR gene includes two common polymorphisms (rs1801133 or C677T; rs1801131 or A1298C) which both alter enzyme activity. The T-allele of the C677T polymorphism has recently been associated with earlier age at onset of schizophrenia. In the present study we examined the association between the MTHFR C677T and A1298C polymorphisms and age at onset of schizophrenia in twelve samples consisting of 3,213 unrelated schizophrenia patients, including the original Scandinavian sample. There was no consistent relationship between MTHFR C677T, A1298C or combined 677T/1298C carriers and age of onset in schizophrenia when the results of each study were combined using meta-analysis. The present results suggest that the investigated MTHFR polymorphisms do not influence age of onset in schizophrenia.
Intelligence is a highly heritable trait for which it has proven difficult to identify the actual genes. In the past decade, five whole-genome linkage scans have suggested genomic regions important to human intelligence; however, so far none of the responsible genes or variants in those regions have been identified. Apart from these regions, a handful of candidate genes have been identified, although most of these are in need of replication. The recent growth in publicly available data sets that contain both whole genome association data and a wealth of phenotypic data, serves as an excellent resource for fine mapping and candidate gene replication. We used the publicly available data of 947 families participating in the International Multi-Centre ADHD Genetics (IMAGE) study to conduct an in silico fine mapping study of previously associated genomic locations, and to attempt replication of previously reported candidate genes for intelligence. Although this sample was ascertained for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), intelligence quotient (IQ) scores were distributed normally. We tested 667 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within 15 previously reported candidate genes for intelligence and 29451 SNPs in five genomic loci previously identified through whole genome linkage and association analyses. Significant SNPs were tested in four independent samples (4,357 subjects), one ascertained for ADHD, and three population-based samples. Associations between intelligence and SNPs in the ATXN1 and TRIM31 genes and in three genomic locations showed replicated association, but only in the samples ascertained for ADHD, suggesting that these genetic variants become particularly relevant to IQ on the background of a psychiatric disorder.
Whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) leads to cognitive impairment in 40-50% of brain tumor survivors following treatment. Although the etiology of cognitive deficits post-WBRT remains unclear, vascular rarefaction appears to be an important component of these impairments. In this study, we assessed the effects of WBRT on the cerebrovasculature and the effects of systemic hypoxia as a potential mechanism to reverse the microvascular rarefaction. Transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein driven by the Acta2 (smooth muscle actin) promoter for blood vessel visualization were randomly assigned to control or radiated groups. Animals received a clinical series of 4.5 Gy WBRT two times weekly for 4 wk followed by 1 mo of recovery. Subsequently, mice were subjected to 11% (hypoxia) or 21% (normoxia) oxygen for 1 mo. Capillary density in subregions of the hippocampus revealed profound vascular rarefaction that persisted despite local tissue hypoxia. Nevertheless, systemic hypoxia was capable of completely restoring cerebrovascular density. Thus hippocampal microvascular rarefaction post-WBRT is not capable of stimulating angiogenesis and can be reversed by chronic systemic hypoxia. Our results indicate a potential shift in sensitivity to angiogenic stimuli and/or the existence of an independent pathway of regulating cerebral microvasculature.
We investigated the effect of the intravenous infusion of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) on the response of plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) levels to intravenous infusion of angiotensin II (ANG II) in healthy individuals. Intravenous infusion of ANP (10 ngkg(-1)min(-1)) slightly but significantly decreased plasma AVP levels, while intravenous infusion of ANG II (10 ngkg(-1)min(-1)) resulted in slightly increased plasma AVP levels. ANG II infused significant elevations in arterial blood pressure and central venous pressure (CVP). Because the elevation in blood pressure could have potentially inhibited AVP secretion via baroreceptor reflexes, the effect of ANG II on blood pressure was attenuated by the simultaneous infusion of nitroprusside. ANG II alone produced a remarkable increase in plasma AVP levels when infused with nitroprusside, whereas the simultaneous ANP intravenous infusion (10 ngkg(-1)min(-1)) abolished the increase in plasma AVP levels induced by ANG II when blood pressure elevation was attenuated by nitroprusside. Thus, ANG II increased AVP secretion and ANP inhibited not only basal AVP secretion but also ANG II-stimulated AVP secretion in humans. These findings support the hypothesis that circulating ANP modulates AVP secretion, in part, by antagonizing the action of circulating ANG II.
This commentary introduces this special section on the Effects of Bonds Between Human and Nonhuman Primates on Primatological Research and Practice. The aim is to explore the different causes and consequences of bonding experiences between observers and observed in different primatological contexts. In the first contribution, Vitale asks what are the possible consequences of such bonding in behavioral primatology. Examples of beneficial consequences of this kind of relationship come fromstudies on cognitive abilities of great apes. Furthermore, an empathic attitude with the experimental animals leads to better care and attention toward individual welfare needs. Coleman discusses the particular case of nonhuman primates housed in research laboratories. Care-giving practices arediscussed in relation to scientific, ethical and emotional issues. Morimura et al. present the case of the first Japanese sanctuary for retiring chimpanzees from research where, in order to facilitate the social living of re-located chimpanzees, face-to-face interactions between caregivers and chimpanzees areessential. Asquith discusses the role of an thropomorphism, and proposes that this attitude can help to better understand the lives of primates, in more contextualized scenarios. In relation to this view, sheemphasizes how the term primate culture accords with some definition of the term human culture.Fuentes, in his article asks whether national, class and ethnic characteristics can influence bonding between human and nonhuman primates, and calls for focused quantitative studies. Finally, Rose calls for the application of the concept of biosynergy, explained as promoting the formation of healthy and sustainable bonding relationships among living creatures. One of the most important aspects emerging from these papers is the need to better understand whether the issue of bonding in primatological studiescan be generalized to other areas of research such as conservation, behavior, captive care, or whether each of these disciplines needs to develop their own understanding of the effects of bonding in producing science.
The aim of this article is to discuss some aspects of the relationship between feelings and primatological science, and how this relationship can influence this particular scientific practice. This point of view is based on the author's personal experience. A sentimental reason to study primatology in the first place will be discussed, and then the existence of a bond between the observer and the observed will be presented as a possible by-product of primatology. The following question is whether a sentimental attitude toward primates is detrimental for good science or is, alternatively, actually leading to better primatological science. As an example, the practice of naming individual monkeys is considered. It is argued that naming monkeys can help by characterizing individuality, and this is likely to improve planning of behavioural observations and welfare of captive individuals. The relationship between the researcher and study subject in biomedical studies is discussed in terms of hierarchy of moral status. Finally, primatology is not unique in the existence of bonds between the observer and the observed, at least from the point of view of the observer. However, primatology is unique because, more than in other cases, it gives greater opportunity for reasoning about different factors surrounding &quot;doing science with animals.&quot; This is most probably owing to the phylogenetic closeness primatologists have with their study subjects. Among the different factors involved in making science using animals, the sentimental bond developing between the researcher and study animal can be very influential.
Ten years ago it was widely expected that the genetic basis of common disease would be resolved by genome-wide association studies (GWAS), large-scale studies in which the entire genome is covered by genetic markers. However, the bulk of heritable variance remains unexplained. The authors consider several alternative research strategies. For instance, whereas it has been hypothesized that a common disease is associated primarily with common genetic variants, it is now plausible that multiple rare variants each have a potent effect on disease risk and that they could accumulate to become a substantial component of common disease risk. This idea has become more appealing since the discovery that copy number variants (CNVs) are a substantial source of human mutations and are associated with multiple common diseases. CNVs are structural genomic variants consisting of microinsertions, microdeletions, and transpositions in the human genome. It has been argued that numerous rare CNVs are plausible causes of a substantial proportion of common disease, and rare CNVs have been found to be potent risk factors in schizophrenia and autism. Another approach is to &quot;parse the genome,&quot; i.e., reanalyze subsets of current GWAS data, since the noise inherent in genome-wide approaches may be hiding valid associations. Lastly, technological advances and declining costs may allow large-scale genome-wide sequencing that would comprehensively identify all genetic variants. Study groups even larger than the 10,000 subjects in current meta-analyses would be required, but the outcomes may lead to resolution of our current dilemma in common diseases: Where is the missing heritability?

Advancements in technology and personal computing have allowed for the development of novel teaching modalities such as online web-based modules. These modules are currently being incorporated into medical curricula and, in some paradigms, have been shown to be superior to classroom instruction. We believe that these modules have the potential of significantly enriching anatomy education by helping students better appreciate spatial relationships, especially in areas of the body with greater anatomical complexity. Our objective was to develop an online module designed to teach the anatomy and function of the cranial nerves. A three-dimensional model of the skull, brainstem, and thalamus were reconstructed using data from the Visible Human Project and Amira. The paths of the cranial nerves were overlaid onto this 3D reconstruction. Videos depicting these paths were then rendered using a &quot;roller coaster-styled&quot; camera approach. Interactive elements adding textual information and user control were inserted into the video using Adobe Creative Suite 4, and finally, the module was exported as an Adobe Flash movie to be viewable on Internet browsers. Fourteen Flash-based modules were created in total. The primary user interface comprises a website encoded in HTML/CSS and contains links to each of the 14 Flash modules as well as a user tutorial.
Much importance has been placed on the use of spatial cues by food-hoarding birds in the retrieval of their caches. In this study, we investigate whether food-hoarding birds can be trained to use local cues (&quot;beacons&quot;) in their cache retrieval. We test magpies (Pica pica) in an active hoarding-retrieval paradigm, where local cues are always reliable, while spatial cues are not. Our results show that the birds use the local cues to retrieve their caches, even when occasionally contradicting spatial information is available. The design of our study does not allow us to test rigorously whether the birds prefer using local over spatial cues, nor to investigate the process through which they learn to use local cues. We furthermore provide evidence that magpies develop landmark preferences, which improve their retrieval accuracy. Our findings support the hypothesis that birds are flexible in their use of memory information, using a combination of the most reliable or salient information to retrieve their caches.
The mammalian circadian timing system is organized into hierarchical structures with a central clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and subsidiary peripheral oscillators. After the discovery of the local clockwork in peripheral organs and tissues, which have a molecular makeup similar to the central pacemaker SCN, uncovering the roles of the peripheral clock in the rhythmic physiology has been an emerging goal in chronobiology. Glucocorticoid (GC) is a multifunctional adrenal steroid hormone that shows a robust circadian rhythm. The daily GC rhythm has long been thought to be governed by the SCN via the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal neuroendocrine axis. Recent findings, however, indicate that multiple regulatory mechanisms, including the adrenal intrinsic mechanism by the peripheral clock, are also involved. GC regulates diverse physiological processes and acts as a signal for resetting peripheral clocks, which suggests the importance of the GC rhythm in harmonizing overall circadian physiology and behavior. Therefore, in this review, we will discuss the important role of the adrenal peripheral clockwork in the circadian regulation of GC and its physiological relevance in the circadian timing system.
The neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is released from stress-transducing neurons. It exerts postsynaptic effects required to complete the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) and hypothalamo-sympatho-adrenal (HSA) circuits activated by psychogenic and metabolic stressors. Upon activation of these circuits, PACAP-responsive (in cell culture models) and PACAP-dependent (in vivo) transcriptomic responses in the adrenal gland, hypothalamus, and pituitary have been identified. Gene products produced in response circuits during stress include additional neuropeptides, neurotransmitter biosynthetic enzymes, and neuroprotective factors. Major portions of HPA and HSA stress responses are abolished in PACAP-deficient mice. This deficit occurs at the level of both the hypothalamus (HPA axis) and the adrenal medulla (HSA axis). PACAP-dependent transcriptional stress responses are conveyed through noncanonical cyclic AMP- and calcium-initiated signaling pathways within the HSA circuit. PACAP transcriptional regulation of the HPA axis, in the hypothalamus, is likely to be mediated via canonical cyclic AMP signaling through protein kinase A.



Increasing evidence has shown that a fraction of the wild-type (wt) form of the tumor suppressor p53, can translocate to mitochondria due to genotoxic stress. The mitochondrial targets of wt p53 have also been studied. However, whether mutant p53, which exists in 50% of human cancers, translocates to mitochondria and affects mitochondrial functions is unclear. In this study, we used doxorubicin, a chemotherapeutic drug, to treat five human lymphoma cell lines with wt, mutant or deficient in p53, to induce p53 activation and mitochondrial translocation. Our results demonstrated that mutant p53, like wt p53, was induced upon doxorubicin treatment. Similarly, a fraction of mutant p53 also translocated to mitochondria. However, Complex I and II activities in the mitochondria were compromised only in wt p53-bearing cells after doxorubicin treatment, but not in mutant p53-bearing cells. Similarly, doxorubicin treatment caused greater cell death only in wt p53-bearing cells, but not in mutant p53-bearing cells. When p53 deficient Ramos cells were transfected with mutant p53 (249S), the cells showed resistance to doxorubicin-induced cell death and decreases in complex activities. To reactivate mutant p53 and reverse chemoresistance, ellipticine (5,11-dimethyl-6H-pyrido[4,3-b]carbazole) was used to treat mutant p53 cells. Ellipticine enhanced p53 mitochondrial translocation, decreased Complex I activity, and sensitized p53 mutant cells to doxorubicin-induced apoptosis. In summary, our studies suggest that mutations in p53 may not hinder p53's mitochondrial translocation, but impair its effects on mitochondrial functions. Therefore, restoring mutant p53 by ellipticine may sensitize these cells to chemotherapy.

There appears to be a significant disconnect between symptomatic and functional recovery in bipolar disorder (BD). Some evidence points to interepisode cognitive dysfunction. We tested the hypothesis that some of this dysfunction was related to emotional reactivity in euthymic bipolar subjects may effect cognitive processing. A modification of emotional gender categorization oddball task was used. The target was gender (probability 25%) of faces with negative, positive, and neutral emotional expression. The experiment had 720 trials (3 blocks240 trials each). Each stimulus was presented for 150ms, and the EEG/ERP responses were recorded for 1,000ms. The inter-trial interval was varied in 1,100-1,500ms range to avoid expectancy effects. Task took about 35min to complete. There were 9 BD and 9 control subjects matched for age and gender. Reaction time (RT) was globally slower in BD subjects. The centro-parietal amplitudes at N170 and N200, and P200 and P300 were generally smaller in the BD group compared to controls. Latency was shorter to neutral and negative targets in BD. Frontal P200 amplitude was higher to emotional negative facial non-targets in BD subjects. The frontal N200 in response to positive facial emotion was less negative in BD subjects. The frontal P300 of BD subjects was lower to emotionally neutral targets. ERP responses to facial emotion in BD subjects varied significantly from normal controls. These variations are consistent with the common depressive symptomology seen in long term studies of bipolar subjects.
This study describes the cognitive profile of Prd-AD, the neuropsychological tests that may predict progression to dementia, and to study their brain structural correlates. We enrolled 24 stable amnesics who did not develop dementia after two years follow-up; 27 patients were considered as Prd-AD, in the initial visit, since they fulfilled NINCDS-ADRDA criteria after two years; 31 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and 27 controls (CTR). Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), as well as a neuropsychological battery was performed at the initial visit. The key findings were: Prd-AD patients were characterized by prominent episodic memory dysfunction and minimal semantic memory and executive dysfunction. Semantic fluency test (Sem-Flu), delayed text memory test (Del-text-mem) and memory alteration test (M@T) (including both episodic and semantic memory), together with trail making test A (TMT-A), resulted significant predictors for dementia development in this group of amnesic patients. This optimal predictive model obtained an estimated accuracy of 53% after two years follow-up. M@T and semantic Sem-Flu test performance presented high correlation with decreased gray matter density in the left lateral temporal lobe. We conclude that Prd-AD is characterized by prominent episodic memory dysfunction and minimal semantic memory and executive dysfunction which are related with left medial, inferior and lateral temporal density loss, predominantly in the left side.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly progressive and ultimately fatal neurodegenerative disorder of unknown aetiology that involves the loss of upper and lower motor neurons in the cerebral cortex, brainstem and spinal cord. Significant progress in understanding the cellular mechanisms of motor neuron degeneration in ALS has not been matched with the development of therapeutic strategies to prevent disease progression, and riluzole remains the only available therapy, with only marginal effects on disease survival. More recently alterations of mRNA processing in genetically defined forms of ALS, as those related to TDP-43 and FUS-TLS gene mutations have provided important insights into the molecular networks implicated in the disease pathogenesis. Here we review some of the recent progress in promoting therapeutic strategies for neurodegeneration.
Several RNA-processing genes have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In particular, causative mutations in the genes encoding for two DNA/RNA binding proteins, TAR DNA binding protein-43 (TDP-43) and fused in sarcoma/translocated in liposarcoma (FUS/TLS), were recently identified in ALS patients. These genetic findings and the presence of abnormal aggregates of these two RNA-binding proteins in ALS affected tissues suggest that molecular mechanisms regulating RNA metabolism are implicated in ALS pathogenesis through common pathways. In this review similarities and differences between TDP-43 and FUS/TLS proteins and their activities in physiological and pathological conditions will be discussed.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a late onset, rapidly progressive and ultimately fatal neurodegenerative disease, caused by the loss of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. About 10% of all ALS cases are familial (FALS), and constitute a clinically and genetically heterogeneous entity. To date, FALS has been linked to mutations in 10 different genes and to four additional chromosomal loci. Research on FALS genetics, and in particular the discoveries of mutations in the SOD1, TARDBP, and FUS genes, has provided essential information toward the understanding of the pathogenesis of ALS in general. This review presents a tentative classification of all FALS-associated genes identified so far.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) belongs to a group of disorders known as motor neuron diseases. Despite being one of the most devastating diseases known, there is little evidence for diagnosing and managing patients with ALS. Clinical neurophysiologic tests are essential, when no biological marker exists to aid early diagnosis, not only in relation to diagnosis, but also in the development of disease progression, and perhaps, in the future, in measuring patients' response to therapy. The electrophysiological features used in the diagnosis of ALS are based on Awaji-shima consensus recommendations for the application of electrophysiological tests, as applied to the revised El Escorial Criteria. Measurements of axonal excitability through nerve conduction study (ENG) is useful to evaluate axonal degeneration. Electromyography (EMG) recordings with needle examination are essential for confirming lower motor neuron involvement in the initial diagnosis of ALS. EMG abnormalities are frequent and these include fibrillation potentials or positive sharp wave potentials, or both, with fasciculation potentials in resting muscle, and an incomplete interference pattern, with abnormal motor unit potentials. Collateral or terminal nerve sprouting is common in ALS and is frequent large macro-motor unit potentials (MUPs). Motor unit number estimation (MUNE) may be useful in measuring loss of functioning motor units and is an attractive endpoint measure in clinical drug trials in ALS because it directly assesses loss of lower motor neurons and is sensitive to disease progression. Transcortical magnetic stimulation protocols, and cortical excitability may be useful to assess the involvement of upper motor neuron system. In this chapter the advantages, limitations and promise of these various methods are discussed, in order to indicate the direction for further neurophysiological studies in this disorder.
There is increasing clinical, imaging and neurophatological evidence that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) represents a multisystem neurodegenerative disease. Neurodegeneration is not restricted to motor neurons, but also includes parts of the brain other than the motor cortex, especially the prefrontal and/or anterior temporal lobe, that contribute to the clinical syndrome. In some cases an evident dementia that resembles frontotemporal degeneration (FTD) was observed. It is now suggested that ALS and FTD are closely related conditions with overlapping clinical, pathological, radiological, and genetic characteristics. The presence of a frontal dementia in ALS has also crucial practical consequences for management of the patients, whose disorder requires critical life decisions for enteral nutrition and respiratory complications. It is our intent to provide a brief overview of the relationships between ALS and FTD.
The most important challenge of ALS remains finding biomarkers. Clinical features remain of key importance in the diagnosis and for follow up. Neurophysiology remains difficult to use in clinical trials. Neuroimaging have some utility for upper motor neuron integrity and function. Among proteins and chemical markers, one of the most promising marker is the level of Nogo in muscle biopsy. In CSF, many candidate proteins have been suggested but their sensitivity and specificity remains disappointing. Recently, -omics technologies have been applied to try to discover biomarkers in ALS, including genomic, proteomic and metabolomic methodologies.
The diagnosis of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) remains in 2010 clinical with neurophysiological support in absence of specific biomarker(s). The disease is diverse in its presentation, cause, and progression. Treatable mimic syndromes must be excluded before the diagnosis is ascribed: ALS and its variants are recognized by neurologists, but 10% of patients are misdiagnosed. Delays in diagnosis are common. Less than 10% of cases are familial and associated with several interactive genes. The onset of ALS predates development of the clinical symptoms by an unknown interval which may extend several years. Prompt diagnosis, sensitive communication of the diagnosis, the involvement of the patient and family, a positive care plan are pre-requisites for the good clinical management of ALS patients.



Class IV alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH4) efficiently reduces aldehydes produced during lipid peroxidation, and may thus serve to protect from toxic effects of aldehydes e.g. on neurons. We hypothesized that ADH4 dysfunction may increase risk for Parkinson's disease (PD) and previously reported association of an ADH4 allele with PD. We found that a promoter polymorphism in this allele induced a 25-30% reduction of transcriptional activity. Based on these findings, we have now investigated whether Adh4 homo- (Adh4-/-) or heterozygous (Adh4+/-) knockout mice display any dopamine system-related changes in behavior, biochemical parameters or olfaction compared to wild-type mice. The spontaneous locomotor activity was found to be similar in the three groups, whereas administration of d-amphetamine or apomorphine induced a significant increase in horizontal activity in the Adh4-/- mice compared to wild-type mice. We measured levels of monoamines and their metabolites in striatum, frontal cortex and substantia nigra and found increased levels of dopamine and DOPAC in substantia nigra of Adh4-/- mice. Investigation of olfactory function revealed a reduced sense of smell in Adh4-/- mice accompanied by alterations in dopamine metabolite levels in the olfactory bulb. Taken together, our results suggest that lack of Adh4 gene activity induces changes in the function of the dopamine system, findings which are compatible with a role of loss-of-function mutations in ADH4 as possible risk factors for PD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia that is degenerative and terminal disease. The main reason of the disease is still unknown. -amyloid (A) plaques are the important hallmarks of memory impairment in patients suffering from AD. Aggregation of these plaques in the hippocampus appears during the development of the disease. One of the prominent factors having crucial impact in this process is MAPK. JNK, as a member of MAPK family has a pivotal role, especially in cell survival. We hypothesized that JNK may have beneficial effect on the process of memory improvement. Hence, we performed Morris water maze to investigate the possible impact of JNK inhibitor on spatial memory in A-injected rats. Our data indicated that intracerebroventricular administration of SP600125, a JNK inhibitor, could significantly decrease escape latency and increase time spent in target quadrant, in treatment group. Furthermore, we evaluated some of the apoptotic factors in the hippocampus of the treated rats. Based on our data, the inhibitor led to the significant decrease in the amount of caspase-3, TUNEL positive cells, cyclooxygenase-2 and increase in Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Given the possible neuroprotective effects of SP600125 on A-induced memory impairment and apoptosis, our results may open a new avenue for the treatment of AD.
Although extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity is essential for the acquisition of a variety of associative learning tasks, its involvement in the acquisition and extinction of ethanol (EtOH)-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) remains unknown. Therefore, in these experiments we examined the effects of the ERK-kinase (MEK)-inhibitor SL327 on acquisition and expression of EtOH-CPP as well as the dose- and time-dependent effects of SL327 on CPP extinction. The parametric findings of Experiment 1 showed that three 30-min (but not 15- or 5-min) non-reinforced trials were required to completely extinguish EtOH-CPP in male, DBA/2J mice. In Experiments 2 and 3, SL327 (30 and 50mg/kg), administered 30 or 90min prior to extinction trials, was unable to impair EtOH-CPP extinction. Experiment 4 showed that SL327 (50mg/kg) had no effect on acquisition of EtOH-CPP or the development of EtOH-induced sensitization during conditioning. When administered prior to testing in Experiments 5 and 6, SL327 did not alter expression of EtOH-CPP but did reduce test activity. Importantly, SL327 significantly reduced pERK protein levels when assessed in the dorsal striatum and motor cortex (Experiment 7). Together, these data suggest that EtOH-related learning and EtOH reward in mice, as assessed with CPP, are not impaired by the systemically administered MEK-inhibitor SL327.
Sensory control of the natural skilled movement of reaching for a food target to eat (reach-to-eat) is closely coupled to the successive phases of the movement. Control subjects visually fixate the target from hand movement onset to the point that the digits contact the food, at which point they look away. This relationship between sensory attention and limb movement suggests that whereas limb advance is under visual control, grasping, limb withdrawal, and releasing the food to the mouth is guided by somatosensation. The pattern of sensory control is altered in Parkinson's disease (PD). PD subjects may visually fixate the target for longer durations prior to movement initiation, during the grasp, and during the initial portion of hand withdrawal suggesting that vision compensates for a somatosensory impairment. Because both medication and listening to favorite musical pieces have been reported to normalize some movements in subjects with PD, the present study compared the effect of medication and listening to preferred musical pieces on sensory attention shifts from vision to somatosensation during the reach-to-eat movement. Biometric measures of eye movement and the movement of the reaching limb were collected from PD subjects and aged-matched control subjects in four conditions in their own homes: off medication, off medication with music, on medication, and on medication with music. Unmedicated PD subjects were slower to visually disengage the target after grasping it. Their disengage latency was shortened by both music and medication. Medication and music did not improve other aspects of reaching, including reaching duration and the ratings of the movement elements of limb advance, grasping, and limb withdrawal. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that one way in which medication and music may aid movement in PD by normalizing somatosensory control of forelimb movement thus reducing compensatory visual monitoring.
The mesolimbic reward pathway is implicated in stress-related psychiatric disorders and is a potential target of plasticity underlying the stress resistance produced by repeated voluntary exercise. It is unknown, however, whether rats find long-term access to running wheels rewarding, or if repeated voluntary exercise reward produces plastic changes in mesolimbic reward neurocircuitry. In the current studies, young adult, male Fischer 344 rats allowed voluntary access to running wheels for 6 weeks, but not 2 weeks, found wheel running rewarding, as measured by conditioned place preference (CPP). Consistent with prior reports and the behavioral data, 6 weeks of wheel running increased FosB/FosB immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens (Acb). In addition, semi quantitative in situ hybridization revealed that 6 weeks of wheel running, compared to sedentary housing, increased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA levels in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), increased delta opioid receptor (DOR) mRNA levels in the Acb shell, and reduced levels of dopamine receptor (DR)-D2 mRNA in the Acb core. Results indicate that repeated voluntary exercise is rewarding and alters gene transcription in mesolimbic reward neurocircuitry. The duration-dependent effects of wheel running on CPP suggest that as the weeks of wheel running progress, the rewarding effects of a night of voluntary wheel running might linger longer into the inactive cycle thus providing stronger support for CPP. The observed plasticity could contribute to the mechanisms by which exercise reduces the incidence and severity of substance abuse disorders, changes the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse, and facilitates successful coping with stress.
Measuring talkativeness is of interest to several areas of research. However, there are few brief, validated measures available. We examined test-retest reliability, inter-relationships and convergent/divergent validity for five brief measures of verbal productivity. Nineteen men and 32 women participated in four sessions, completing five speech tasks that varied in demand, purpose of speech and sociability. Several potential metrics (word count, duration and rate) were examined. All tasks except a novel Unprompted Speech task demonstrated good word count test-retest reliability (interclass correlation coefficients from .71 to .85). Factor analysis revealed low-demand, non-functional tasks formed one factor (&quot;Voluntary Talkativeness&quot;), while higher demand tasks formed a second factor (&quot;Speech Ability&quot;). This finding and examination of relationships with IQ, personality and gender indicate &quot;Voluntary Talkativeness&quot; is not wholly accounted for by verbal ability, and is only weakly related to self-reported personality. Recommendations for the measurement of &quot;Voluntary Talkativeness&quot; are made.
Ratings of realism, masculinity, race, and racial stereotypy were collected on a set of computer-generated faces representing European, South East Asian, and African American ethnicities. To determine if these faces are processed in the same way as photographs of real faces, we demonstrated with these faces superior memory performance for upright faces over inverted faces (the face inversion effect). Further, in observers of European decent, we found both superior memory for European faces and a larger inversion effect for European than African American faces. Based on these results, we believe that this set of faces may be of use in perceptual investigations in which race is a critical manipulation.
Arguably, few things have shaped the historiography of the mid-twentieth century psy-sciences (and indeed, of the life sciences and science/technology/intellectual life quite generally) more profoundly than the story of cybernetics. This essay aims to undermine this technofuturistic picture of epistemological upheavals, of cyborg regimes of knowing, and of the incipient post-human, by reinserting back into the story the rather dull and unspectacular lives (and occupations) of the great majority of British, 'diverted' biologists during World War II. Instead of Ratio Clubbers or Macy-Conference frequenters, this essay is concerned with a much larger population of would-be biologists and their most pedestrian appropriations of, and exposures to, electronics. What I argue is that the prevalence and systematicity of such exposures in the course of the personnel-hungry radio-war points to a very different--low-key--picture of the war/technology-induced deflections of biological science at mid-century. As an example of how deeply at odds narrations of cybernetic's ascent tend to sit with developments on ground level, special attention will be devoted to the physiologists-turned-radar-scientists Alan Hodgkin and Andrew Huxley, and their war-time, or more properly, spare-time investigations into the biophysics of nerve. The latter--technical, difficult, and utterly unphilosophical--while absent from the cyber-theme-focused historiography, provided the basis for the tremendous impact Hodkgin and Huxley would in fact have on the mainstream, disciplinarily conservative physiological sciences; the larger aim however is to weave these far from peculiar biographical trajectories into a somewhat bigger picture of the intersections between radar electronics and biological science: a picture which does not centre on sensational discourses but on mundane electronic practices; and thus, on the generational experience of those who were known at the time as &quot;ex radar folk with biological leanings&quot;.
Bone marrow (BM) derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) differentiate into cells of the mesodermal lineage but also, under certain experimental circumstances, into cells of the neuronal and glial lineage. Their therapeutic translation has been significantly boosted by the demonstration that MSC display significant also anti-proliferative, anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic features. These properties have been exploited in the effective treatment of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis where the inhibition of the autoimmune response resulted in a significant neuroprotection. A significant rescue of neural cells has been achieved also when MSC were administered in experimental brain ischemia and in animals undergoing brain or spinal cord injury. In these experimental conditions BM-MSC therapeutic effects are likely to depend on paracrine mechanisms mediated by the release of growth factors, anti-apoptotic molecules and anti-inflammatory cytokines creating a favorable environment for the regeneration of neurons, remyelination and improvement of cerebral flow. For potential clinical application BM-MSC offer significant practical advantages over other types of stem cells since they can be obtained from the adult BM and can be easily cultured and expanded in vitro under GMP conditions displaying a very low risk of malignant transformation. This review discusses the targets and mechanisms of BM-MSC mediated neuroprotection.
PSD-95, a synaptic scaffolding protein, plays important roles in the regulation of dendritic spine morphology and glutamate receptor signaling. We have recently shown that PSD-95 also plays an extrasynaptic role during development. PSD-95 shapes dendrite branching patterns in cultured rat hippocampal neurons by altering microtubule dynamics via an association with the microtubule end-binding protein-3 (EB3). We discovered that PSD-95 interacts directly with EB3 and that the result of this interaction decreases EB3 binding to and EB3 comet lifetime on microtubules. This decrease in lifetime also correlates to decreased dendrite branching. Here we present an additional effect of PSD-95 overexpression on microtubules. Neurons that overexpress PSD-95 show increased distance between microtubules in a manner that is not fully dependent on the interaction between PSD-95 and EB3. We discuss these new data in the context of the role of PSD-95 in shaping the dendritic arbor, and we extend our findings to include a discussion of how PSD-95 may guide neurons toward a more mature and synapse-oriented growth stage.
The need for a revised curriculum within the life sciences has been well-established. One strategy to improve student preparation in the life sciences is to redesign introductory courses like biology, chemistry, and physics so that they better reflect their disciplinary interdependence. We describe a medically relevant, context-based approach to teaching second semester general chemistry that demonstrates the interdisciplinary nature of biology and chemistry. Our innovative method provides a model in which disciplinary barriers are diminished early in the undergraduate science curriculum. The course is divided into three principle educational modules: 1) Fundamentals of General Chemistry, 2) Medical Approaches to Inflammation, and 3) Neuroscience as a connector of chemistry, biology, and psychology. We accurately anticipated that this modified approach to teaching general chemistry would enhance student interest in chemistry and bridge the perceived gaps between biology and chemistry. The course serves as a template for context-based, interdisciplinary teaching that lays the foundation needed to train 21st century scientists.
Previous studies have implicated a role of heterotrimeric G(i) proteins in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory responses. We hypothesized that Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling regulates G(i) proteins, which are anti-inflammatory in endotoxemia and polymicrobial sepsis. RAW 264.7 cells were stimulated with LPS and the G(i)-GTP protein complex was immunoprecipitated with a G(i) protein activation assay. In subsequent in vivo studies, the G(i) protein inhibitor pertussis toxin (PTx) or G(i) protein agonist mastoparan (MP-7) were administrated prior to endotoxemia. LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokines and mortality were determined. To examine the role of G(i2) in sepsis, G(i2) (-/-) and wildtype (WT) mice were subjected to cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) and monitored every 24 h for 120 h. Other mice were sacrificed 24 h after CLP. Peritoneal fluid, blood, and tissue samples were collected. Plasma pro-inflammatory cytokine production, bacterial load in peritoneal fluid, blood and lung tissue, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in lung and liver and different immune cell populations in spleen were studied. We found that G(i) proteins are rapidly activated by LPS followed by rapid inactivation. These studies provide the first direct evidence that G(i) proteins are modulated by TLR signaling. In following studies, PTx augmented LPS-induced plasma TNF, IL-6, whereas MP-7 suppressed LPS-induced TNF and decreased LPS-induced mortality. In sepsis studies, the survival rate post-CLP was significantly decreased in the G(i2) (-/-) mice compared to WT mice. CLP-induced plasma TNF, IL-6, bacterial load in peritoneal fluid, blood and lung tissue and lung and liver MPO activity were significantly increased in G(i2) (-/-) compared to WT mice. G(i2) (-/-) mice also exhibited increased Th1 and Th2 responses compared to WT mice. Taken together, G(i) proteins are activated by LPS and negatively regulate endotoxemia and sepsis. Understanding the role of G(i2) protein in regulation of the inflammatory response in sepsis may provide novel targets for treatment of sepsis.

A large group of diverse, functionally important, and differently localized transmembrane proteins, share a particular membrane topology, consisting of a cytosolic N-terminal region, followed by a transmembrane domain close to the C-terminus. The C-terminal membrane anchor of these tail-anchored (TA) proteins generally represents the sole targeting determinant, and becomes available to targeting factors only after release of the finished polypeptide from the ribosome. Hence, TA proteins do not have a chance to interact co-translationally with Signal Recognition Particle and are delivered post-translationally to all target membranes, including the ER. Recent work has demonstrated the existence of different biogenetic pathways for TA proteins. Notably, some are able to efficiently translocate their C-terminus across protein-free bilayers without the participation of any membrane or cytosolic protein, while others require assistance from cytosolic chaperones and membrane receptors. In this review, we summarize current knowledge on the different insertion pathways, with emphasis on a recently discovered chaperone system that operates in fungi as well as in higher eukaryotes to deliver TA proteins to the ER (called Guided Entry of Tail-anchored Proteins (Get) system and Transmembrane Recognition Complex (TRC), in yeast and mammals, respectively). We suggest that the final insertion step of TA proteins does not require membrane proteins, but that different competing chaperone systems ensure precise delivery to defined targets while preventing inappropriate insertion into otherwise permissive bilayers. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Protein translocation across or insertion into membranes.
The p24 proteins function in early secretory pathway transport processes, but their exact role is unclear. In physiologically activated Xenopus melanotrope cells, a representative of each p24 subfamily (p24(3), -(1), -(3), -(2)) is upregulated coordinately with the major melanotrope cargo, proopiomelanocortin (POMC), whereas two other p24s (p24(2) and -(1)) are also expressed, but not coordinately with POMC. Using melanotrope-specific transgene expression, we here find that the roles of both p24(2) and p24(1) in the transport, glycosylation, sulphation and cleavage of POMC are different from those of their upregulated subfamily relatives (p24(3) and p24(2), respectively). Thus, even p24 proteins from the same subfamily have distinct functions in secretory cargo biosynthesis.
Multisensor recordings are becoming commonplace. When studying functional connectivity between different brain areas using such recordings, one defines regions of interest, and each region of interest is often characterized by a set (block) of time series. Presently, for two such regions, the interdependence is typically computed by estimating the ordinary coherence for each pair of individual time series and then summing or averaging the results over all such pairs of channels (one from block 1 and other from block 2). The aim of this paper is to generalize the concept of coherence so that it can be computed for two blocks of non-overlapping time series. This quantity, called block coherence, is first shown mathematically to have properties similar to that of ordinary coherence, and then applied to analyze local field potential recordings from a monkey performing a visuomotor task. It is found that an increase in block coherence between the channels from V4 region and the channels from prefrontal region in beta band leads to a decrease in response time.

The current study examined whether the perception of life stress related to cardiovascular reactivity. Participants (n = 100) completed the Perceived Stress Scale, the Undergraduate Stress Questionnaire, and undertook a standard mental arithmetic stress task. Blood pressure and pulse rate were measured at baseline, during, and following stress task exposure. Reactivity was the difference between stress and baseline cardiovascular activity. A perceived stress difference score (PSDS) was calculated by subtracting the Undergraduate Stress Questionnaire scores from the Perceived Stress Scale scores. Two groups were created: high PSDS (n = 15; PSDS at least 1SD above the mean) and low PSDS (n = 15; PSDS at least 1SD below the mean). There was a significant difference between groups in pulse rate reactivity, F(1,28) = 8.73, p = .006,  = .24. High PSDS scores were associated with significantly lower pulse rate reactions to stress. Those who perceived their lives as more stressful than their actual stress exposures justified would appear to be characterised by blunted cardiac reactivity.
Microelectrode electrophysiology has become a widespread technique for the extracellular recording of bioelectrical signals. To date, electrodes are made of metals or inorganic semiconductors, or hybrids thereof. We demonstrate that these traditional conductors can be completely substituted by highly flexible electroconductive polymers. Pursuing a two-level replica-forming strategy, conductive areas for electrodes, leads and contact pads are defined as microchannels in poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS) as a plastic carrier and track insulation material. These channels are coated by films of organic conductors such as polystyrenesulfonate-doped poly(3,4-ethylenedioxy-thiophene) (PEDOT:PSS) or filled with a graphite-PDMS (gPDMS) composite, either alone or in combination. The bendable, somewhat stretchable, non-cytotoxic and biostable all-polymer microelectrode arrays (polyMEAs) with a thickness below 500 m and up to 60 electrodes reliably capture action potentials (APs) and local field potentials (LFPs) from acute preparations of heart muscle cells and retinal whole mounts, in vivo epicortical and epidural recordings as well as during long-term in vitro recordings from cortico-hippocampal co-cultures.
A novel series of agonists at the benzodiazepine binding site of the GABA(A) receptor was prepared by functionalizing a known template. Adding substituents to the pyrazolone-oxygen of CGS-9896 led to a number of compounds with selectivities for either 2- or 1-containing GABA(A) receptor subtypes offering an entry into indications such as anxiety and insomnia. In this communication, structure-activity relationship and efforts to increase in vitro stabilities are discussed.



Neuropeptide Y, Y1 receptors are found in neuronal as well as bone tissue and Y1 signalling has been implicated in the regulation of bone mass. However, the contribution of Y1 receptors located in these different tissues, particularly that of the bone-specific Y1 receptors, to the regulation of bone homeostasis is unclear. Here we demonstrate that osteoblast-specific Y1 receptor deletion resulted in a marked increase in femoral cancellous bone volume, trabecular thickness and trabecular number. This is the result of elevated osteoblast activity as shown by increased mineral apposition rate and bone formation rate, and is associated with an upregulation in the mRNA expression levels of alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin and dentin matrix protein-1. Furthermore, osteoblastic Y1 receptor deletion also led to increased mineral apposition rate on both the endocortical and the periosteal surfaces resulting in increased femoral diameter. Together these data demonstrate a direct role for the Y1 receptor on osteoblasts in the regulation of osteoblast activity and bone formation in vivo and suggest that targeting Y1 receptor signalling directly in the bone may have potential therapeutic implications for stimulating bone accrual in diseases such as osteoporosis.




The neurodevelopmental hypothesis of schizophrenia provided a valuable framework that allowed a condition that usually presents with frank disorder in adolescence or early adulthood to be understood at least in part as a consequence of events occurring early in development. However, the implications of the neurodevelopmental hypothesis for nosological conceptions of the disorder can only now be fully appreciated. Recent research indicates genetic overlap between schizophrenia and syndromes in which psychopathology is manifest in childhood and that are often grouped together as 'neurodevelopmental disorders' such as autism-spectrum disorders, intellectual disability and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. These findings challenge the aetiological basis of current diagnostic categories and, together with evidence for frequent comorbidity, suggest that we should view the functional psychoses as members of a group of related and overlapping syndromes that result in part from a combination of genetic and environmental effects on brain development and that are associated with specific and general impairments of cognitive function. This has important implications for future research and for the configuration of psychiatric services.
We present a new MRI finding within the lumbar spine in a series of six patients admitted with CT proven subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) where cerebral angiography demonstrated no aneurysm and who had not had a lumbar puncture. A retrospective audit of 130 patients presenting to a regional neurosciences centre over a 13 month period with a suspected diagnosis of SAH was performed. Seven patients with proven SAH underwent MRI of the lumbar spine during the same admission. In six of these patients layering of haemorrhagic blood products was demonstrated within the lumbosacral spine. The process is analogous to the previously ubiquitous bedside erythrocyte sedimentation rate assay and has has been termed the &quot;lumbar sedimentation&quot; sign. This finding has not previously been reported in the literature in relation to SAH. While this is a small unselected group it may provide a useful adjunct in the diagnosis of SAH.
Functional neuroimaging methods hold promise for the identification of cognitive function and communication capacity in some severely brain-injured patients who may not retain sufficient motor function to demonstrate their abilities. We studied seven severely brain-injured patients and a control group of 14 subjects using a novel hierarchical functional magnetic resonance imaging assessment utilizing mental imagery responses. Whereas the control group showed consistent and accurate (for communication) blood-oxygen-level-dependent responses without exception, the brain-injured subjects showed a wide variation in the correlation of blood-oxygen-level-dependent responses and overt behavioural responses. Specifically, the brain-injured subjects dissociated bedside and functional magnetic resonance imaging-based command following and communication capabilities. These observations reveal significant challenges in developing validated functional magnetic resonance imaging-based methods for clinical use and raise interesting questions about underlying brain function assayed using these methods in brain-injured subjects.
The tyrosine kinase 2 variant rs34536443 has been established as a genetic risk factor for multiple sclerosis in a variety of populations. However, the functional effect of this variant on disease pathogenesis remains unclear. This study replicated the genetic association of tyrosine kinase 2 with multiple sclerosis in a cohort of 1366 French patients and 1802 controls. Furthermore, we assessed the functional consequences of this polymorphism on human T lymphocytes by comparing the reactivity and cytokine profile of T lymphocytes isolated from individuals expressing the protective TYK2(GC) genotype with the disease-associated TYK2(GG) genotype. Our results demonstrate that the protective C allele infers decreased tyrosine kinase 2 activity, and this reduction of activity is associated with a shift in the cytokine profile favouring the secretion of Th2 cytokines. These findings suggest that the rs34536443 variant effect on multiple sclerosis susceptibility might be mediated by deviating T lymphocyte differentiation toward a Th2 phenotype. This impact of tyrosine kinase 2 on effector differentiation is likely to be of wider importance because other autoimmune diseases also have been associated with polymorphisms within tyrosine kinase 2. The modulation of tyrosine kinase 2 activity might therefore represent a new therapeutic approach for the treatment of autoimmune diseases.


Stroke leads to brain damage with subsequent slow and incomplete recovery of lost brain functions. Enriched housing of stroke-injured rats provides multi-modal sensorimotor stimulation, which improves recovery, although the specific mechanisms involved have not been identified. In rats housed in an enriched environment for two weeks after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion, we found increased sigma-1 receptor expression in peri-infarct areas. Treatment of rats subjected to permanent or transient middle cerebral artery occlusion with 1-(3,4-dimethoxyphenethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine dihydrochloride, an agonist of the sigma-1 receptor, starting two days after injury, enhanced the recovery of lost sensorimotor function without decreasing infarct size. The sigma-1 receptor was found in the galactocerebroside enriched membrane microdomains of reactive astrocytes and in neurons. Sigma-1 receptor activation increased the levels of the synaptic protein neurabin and neurexin in membrane rafts in the peri-infarct area, while sigma-1 receptor silencing prevented sigma-1 receptor-mediated neurite outgrowth in primary cortical neuronal cultures. In astrocytic cultures, oxygen and glucose deprivation induced sigma-1 receptor expression and actin dependent membrane raft formation, the latter blocked by sigma-1 receptor small interfering RNA silencing and pharmacological inhibition. We conclude that sigma-1 receptor activation stimulates recovery after stroke by enhancing cellular transport of biomolecules required for brain repair, thereby stimulating brain plasticity. Pharmacological targeting of the sigma-1 receptor provides new opportunities for stroke treatment beyond the therapeutic window of neuroprotection.
Cell therapy offers the possibility of replacing degenerated neurons thereby improving the symptoms of neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington's disease. However, clinical benefits in patients with Huntington's disease, if any, have been transient and modest. Grafts survived well at 18 months in one patient with Huntington's disease, but graft survival was markedly attenuated by 10 years in three other patients from this transplantation cohort. It is critical to delineate the causes of graft degeneration if such therapies will be utilized in patients with a goal of achieving meaningful clinical benefit. Similar challenges may also accrue to future stem cell therapies. Here we discuss the potential causes of suboptimal long-term graft survival in patients with Huntington's disease, including allograft immunoreactivity, microglial responses targeted to grafted cells and cell-to-cell neurotoxicity. We also discuss similar challenges and unique differences comparing neuronal grafts in patients with Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases.
The impact of inflammatory immune activation on behavioral and physiological processes varies with antecedent stressor experiences. We assessed whether immune activation would differentially influence such outcomes as a function of stressor reactivity related to genetic differences. To this end, we assessed the influence of a social stressor (exposure to a dominant mouse) in combination with an acute immune challenge on behavior and on peripheral and central cytokines in stressor-reactive BALB/cByJ mice and the less reactive C57BL/6ByJ strain. As C57BL/6ByJ and BALB/cByJ mice are highly T helper type-1 (Th1) and Th2 responsive, respectively, the stressor effects were assessed in response to different challenges, namely the viral analogue poly I:C and the bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The stressor enhanced the effects of LPS on sickness behaviors and plasma corticosterone particularly in BALB/cByJ mice, whereas the effects of poly I:C, which primarily affects Th1 processes, were not augmented by the stressor. As well, the stressor increased circulating cytokines in LPS treated C57BL/6ByJ mice, whereas the effects of poly I:C were diminished. Finally, like circulating cytokines, mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines within the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus varied with the mouse strain and with the stressor experience, and with the specific cytokine considered. Together, the experiments indicated that the impact of stressors vary with the nature of the immune challenge to which animals had been exposed. Moreover, given the diversity of the stressor effects on central and peripheral processes, it seems likely that the cytokine changes, HPA activity and sickness operate through independent mechanisms.
It was recently shown that adaptive immunity plays a key role in cognitive function. T cells appear to be major players in learning and memory; thus, mice devoid of functional T cells are impaired in performance of cognitive tasks such as Morris water maze (MWM), Barnes maze and others. This is a reversible phenomenon; injection of immune deficient mice with T cells from wild type counterparts improves their cognitive function. Recently we described a critical role for T cell-derived IL-4 as having beneficial effects on learning and memory through regulation of meningeal myeloid cell phenotype. In the absence of IL-4, meningeal myeloid cells acquire a pro-inflammatory skew. Thus, the presence of IL-4 in the meningeal spaces maintains a delicate balance of pro- and anti-inflammatory myeloid cell phenotype. Here we show that macrophages alternatively activated in vitro (M2 cells) can circumvent the need for 'pro-cognitive' T cells when injected intravenously into immune deficient mice. These results show for the first time that M2 myeloid cells are new and unexpected players in cognitive function, conferring beneficial effects on learning and memory without adaptive immune influence. These results might lead to development of new therapeutic approaches for cognitive pathologies associated with malfunction of adaptive immunity, such as chemo-brain, age-related dementia, HIV-dementia, and others.
Time perception, crucial for adaptive behavior, has been shown to be altered by emotion. An arousal-dependent mechanism is proposed to account for such an effect. Yet, physiological measure of arousal related with emotional timing is still lacking. We addressed this question using skin conductance response (SCR) in an emotion regulation paradigm. Nineteen participants estimated durations of neutral and negative sounds by comparing them to a previously memorized duration. Instructions were given to attend either to temporal or to emotional stimulus features. Attending to emotion with negative sounds generated longer subjective duration and greater physiological arousal than attending to time. However, a shared-attention condition showed discrepancy between behavioral and physiological results. Supporting the idea of a link between autonomic arousal and subjective duration, our results however suggest that this relation is not as direct as was expected. Results are discussed within recent model linking time perception, emotion and awareness.
This study applied volumetric analysis and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) of brain magnetic resonance (MR) images to assess whether correlations exist between global and regional gray/white matter volume and the cognitive functions of semantic memory and short-term memory, which are relatively well preserved with aging, using MR image data from 109 community-dwelling healthy elderly individuals. We used the Information and Digit Span subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligent Scale-Revised as measures of semantic memory and short-term memory, respectively. We found significant positive correlations between the gray matter ratio, the percentage of gray matter volume in the intracranial volume, and performance on the Digit Span subtest, and between the regional gray matter volumes of the bilateral anterior temporal lobes and performance on the Information subtest. No significant correlations between performance on the cognitive tests and white matter volume were found. Our results suggest that individual variability in specific cognitive functions that are relatively well preserved with aging is accounted for by the variability of gray matter volume in healthy elderly subjects.
Cortical grey matter atrophy patterns have been reported in healthy ageing and Alzheimer disease (AD), but less consistently in the parietal regions of the brain. We investigated cortical grey matter volume patterns in parietal areas. The grey matter of the somatosensory cortex, superior and inferior parietal lobule was measured in 75 older adults (38 cognitively stable and 37 individuals with cognitive decline after 3 years). Dementia screening 6 years after scanning resulted in nine AD cases from the cognitively stable (n=3) and cognitive decline group (n=6), who were assigned to a third group, the preclinical AD group. When regional differences in cortical volume in the parietal lobe areas were compared between groups, significant differences were found between either the cognitive decline or stable group on the one hand and preclinical AD individuals on the other hand in the inferior parietal lobule. Group membership was best predicted by the grey matter volume of the inferior parietal lobule, compared to the other parietal lobe areas. The parietal lobe was characterised by a differential atrophy pattern based on cognitive status, which is in agreement with the 'last-developed-first-atrophied' principle. Future studies should investigate the surplus value of the inferior parietal lobe as a potential marker for the diagnosis of AD compared to other brain regions, such as the medial temporal lobe and the prefrontal lobe.
Individual differences in psychophysiological function have been shown to influence the balance between flexibility and distractibility during attentional set-shifting [e.g., Dreisbach et al. (2005). Dopamine and cognitive control: The influence of spontaneous eyeblink rate and dopamine gene polymorphisms on perseveration and distractibility. Behavioral Neuroscience, 119(2), 483-490]. Here we replicate both the facilitatory and detrimental influence of spontaneous eyeblink rate upon switch costs across the two distinct conditions of a set-shifting task. We extend this by presenting additional, putatively dopamine related, individual differences that also influence attentional control. Whereas trait psychoticism showed a pattern of effects opposite to that of eyeblink rate, greater working memory served to decrease switch costs across both conditions. These results highlight the need for further exploration of the role of dopaminergic neurotransmission and component processes involved in such attentional paradigms, and illustrates the importance of considering individual differences in cognitive control.
Adults with phonological dyslexia and controls performed a lexical decision task while ERPs were recorded in the occipitotemporal pathway. Based on N170 durations, two subgroups were formed: dysl1 showing longer N170 durations and dysl2 showing normal N170 durations. While the dysl1 subgroup had poorer accuracy for infrequent words and pseudo-words, the dysl2 group responded more slowly than controls to pseudo-words. N170 amplitudes were larger in the left hemisphere for controls irrespective of items. In the dysl1 subgroup, N170 amplitudes were larger in the left hemisphere than the right for words but not for pseudo-words, a sign of hemispheric compensation, while in the dysl2 subgroup signs of bilateralization were observed. Moreover, in the dysl1 subgroup, P100 amplitudes were smaller than controls. These results indicate different behavioral profiles of dyslexics with different patterns of P100 and N170 components. The ERP changes may be due to different behavioral strategies employed by each subgroup, logographic in dysl2 and phonological in dysl1.
Neonatal encephalopathy associated with perinatal hypoxia-ischaemia is one of the most common causes of death and permanent disability worldwide. However, of a wide range of &quot;experimentally neuroprotective treatments&quot; invented so far, only therapeutic hypothermia has been promoted into a standard clinical practice. Such a wide gap in the efficacy of neuroprotective treatments between the experimental setting and clinical practice may be attributed to the strategic flaw in translating basic knowledge into clinical care. When previous clinical studies are carefully reviewed, one may notice that few therapeutic options were chosen based on their track records in experimental studies; protective effects of some drugs had been assumed only based on their pharmacokinetics in adult species; several therapies were chosen merely because clinicians were familiar to these treatments for other purpose; some other therapies were imported too preliminarily from laboratory to clinical practice, potentially ignoring the difference in physiological and pathological backgrounds between rodent models and human patients. When further clinical trials are planned, it is important to ask whether (i) the treatment is supported by pharmacokinetics specific to immature brain, and (ii) the neuroprotective effect of the treatment has consistently been demonstrated using clinically relevant models and study designs. The use of translational large animal models allows the practical simulation and fine-tuning of clinical protocols, which may further assist successful translation of basic knowledge. In addition to the effort to develop alternative therapeutic options, it is important to maximise the effect of the current only neuroprotective option, or therapeutic hypothermia. Independent variables which influence the efficacy of hypothermia have to be elucidated to improve its therapeutic protocol, and to increase the number of patients who will benefit from this treatment.
Metaphonological tasks, such as rhyme judgment, have been the primary tool for the investigation of the effects of orthographic knowledge on spoken language. However, it has been recently argued that the orthography effect in rhyme judgment does not reflect the automatic activation of orthographic codes but rather stems from sophisticated response strategies. Such a claim stands in sharp contrast with recent findings using event-related brain potentials (ERPs) in lexical and semantic tasks, which were taken to suggest that orthographic information occurs early enough to affect the core process of lexical access. Here, we show that the electrophysiological signature of the orthography effect in rhyme judgment is indeed different from the one obtained in online lexical or semantic tasks. That is, we did not find the orthography effect in the 300-350 ms time window which has previously been shown to process lexical information in the lexico-semantic tasks, but the effect appeared within the 175-250 ms and the 375-750 ms time-windows which we interpreted to reflect segmentation and decisional process, respectively. We conclude that the interactions between phonology and orthography are task-specific. Metaphonological tasks appear of limited use for studying the core processes and interactions that underlie lexical access.
The goal of brain-machine interface (BMI) research is to interpret brain signals in order to control an external device. Substantial progress toward this goal has been achieved over the last decade. Currently, BMI algorithms can translate neural signals into motor commands that reproduce arm-reaching and hand-grasping movements in artificial actuators, thereby promising the restoration of limb mobility in paralyzed people. In one study, a tetraplegic human subject used a clinical neuromotor prosthesis to restore his communication and mobility. Furthermore, a recently developed neural decoding technology provides an effective means to read out mental states from human brain activity. Decoding of mental states could be used for direct human-human communication outside the brain's normal pathways. However, for BMI practical, long-term stability of signal interpretation is required. Unfortunately, the classical invasive BMI methods suffer from poor long-term stability because of deterioration in signal quality. Two new approaches to long-term BMI applications are showing promising results in maintaining signal quality. One is the use of newly developed electrodes that are less harmful to neural tissues, and the other is the use of electrocorticograms (ECoGs), which measure population activity of neurons with electrodes placed on the surface of the brain. Both these new technologies facilitate clearer signals from the brain and greater stability of brain signals over time. In this review, we summarize the previous BMI approaches and shed light upon the new advances that may enable long-term BMI use.
Immunohistochemisty with RD3, a monoclonal antibody specific for three-repeat (3R) tau, is sometimes hampered by diffuse neuronal staining on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections pretreated with formic acid and heating. Additional pretreatment with potassium permanganate followed by oxalic acid completely eliminated this diffuse RD3-immunoreactivity (IR) in neurons. Furthermore, this additional pretreatment uniformly enhanced RD3-IR, as well as RD4-IR, a monoclonal antibody specific for four-repeat (4R) tau, on pathological deposits with tau IR. This enhanced sensitivity and specificity may allow more reliable identification of 3R and 4R tau in pathological deposits, which may be variable dependent on disease and regions. Cerebral cortex and midbrain from 8 patients [5 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and 3 corticobasal degeneration (CBD)] were screened for RD3- and RD4-IR with this improved procedure. In addition to RD4-positive structures found both in cerebral cortex and brainstem, RD3-positive neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) were also found in midbrain in 7 of these 8 cases but not in the cortex. Multi-labeling study demonstrated that most of RD3-negative neurons were positive for RD4. This reliable demonstration of pathological 3R tau deposits in the brainstem of PSP/CBD, so far presumably characterized by deposition of 4R tau, is useful to map tau-positive lesions according to their biochemical composition.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the accumulation of -synuclein aggregates and degeneration of melanized neurons. The tissue transglutaminase (tTG) enzyme catalyzes molecular protein cross-linking. In PD brain, tTG-induced cross-links have been identified in -synuclein monomers, oligomers and -synuclein aggregates. However, whether tTG and -synuclein occur together in PD affected neurons remains to be established. Interestingly, using immunohistochemistry, we observed a granular distribution pattern of tTG, characteristic of melanized neurons in PD brain. Apart from tTG, these granules were also positive for typical endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident chaperones, that is, protein disulphide isomerase, ERp57 and calreticulin, suggesting a direct link to the ER. Additionally, we observed the presence of phosphorylated pancreatic ER kinase (pPERK), a classical ER stress marker, in tTG granule positive neurons in PD brain, although no subcellular colocalization of tTG and pPERK was found. Our data therefore suggest that tTG localization to granular ER compartments is specific for stressed melanized neurons in PD brain. Moreover, as also -synuclein aggregates were observed in tTG granule positive neurons, these results provide a clue to the cellular site of interaction between -synuclein and tTG.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was shown to produce its neuroprotective effect through extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3-K) signaling. But whether other pathways also mediate the neuroprotective effect of BDNF is less known. In this study, we found that direct administration of BDNF to rat hippocampal CA1 area dose-dependently increased the mRNA and protein levels of Bcl-xL. BDNF also increased protein kinase casein kinase II (CK2) activity and NF-B phosphorylation at Ser529 dose-dependently. Further, transfection of the wild-type CK2 DNA to CA1 neurons increased nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) phosphorylation and Bcl-xL mRNA expression, whereas transfection of CK2156A, the catalytically inactive mutant of CK2, decreased these measures. Moreover, transfection of CK2 small interfering RNA (siRNA) blocked the enhancing effect of BDNF on NF-B phosphorylation and Bcl-xL expression. These results were further confirmed by treatment of 4,5,6,7-tetrabromobenzotriazole (TBB), a specific CK2 inhibitor. Transfection of NF-BS529A, the dominant negative mutant of NF-B, prevented the enhancing effect of BDNF on Bcl-xL expression. More importantly, BDNF activation of CK2 is not affected by co-administration of the ERK1/2 inhibitor, PD98059, and the PI3-K inhibitor, LY294002. These results demonstrate a novel BDNF signaling pathway and provide an alternative therapeutic strategy for the protective effect of BDNF on hippocampal neurons in vivo.
Axonal arbors of principal neurons form the backbone of neuronal networks in the mammalian cortex. Three-dimensional reconstructions of complete axonal trees are invaluable for quantitative analysis and modeling. However, digital data are still sparse due to labor intensity of reconstructing these complex structures. We augmented conventional tracing techniques with computational approaches to reconstruct fully labeled axonal morphologies. We digitized the axons of three rat hippocampal pyramidal cells intracellularly filled in vivo from different CA3 sub-regions: two from areas CA3b and CA3c, respectively, toward the septal pole, and one from the posterior/ventral area (CA3pv) near the temporal pole. The reconstruction system was validated by comparing the morphology of the CA3c neuron with that traced from the same cell by a different operator on a standard commercial setup. Morphometric analysis revealed substantial differences among neurons. Total length ranged from 200 (CA3b) to 500mm (CA3c), and axonal branching complexity peaked between 1 (CA3b and CA3pv) and 2mm (CA3c) of Euclidean distance from the soma. Length distribution was analyzed among sub-regions (CA3a,b,c and CA1a,b,c), cytoarchitectonic layers, and longitudinal extent within a three-dimensional template of the rat hippocampus. The CA3b axon extended thrice more collaterals within CA3 than into CA1. On the contrary, the CA3c projection was double into CA1 than within CA3. Moreover, the CA3b axon extension was equal between strata oriens and radiatum, while the CA3c axon displayed an oriens/radiatum ratio of 1:6. The axonal distribution of the CA3pv neuron was intermediate between those of the CA3b and CA3c neurons both relative to sub-regions and layers, with uniform collateral presence across CA3/CA1 and moderate preponderance of radiatum over oriens. In contrast with the dramatic sub-region and layer differences, the axon longitudinal spread around the soma was similar for the three neurons. To fully characterize the axonal diversity of CA3 principal neurons will require higher-throughput reconstruction systems beyond the threefold speed-up of the method adopted here.
Perceptual filling-in occurs when visual stimuli are recognized in impoverished viewing conditions. Whether missing information is filled-in during face perception and which stages might be involved in this process are still unresolved questions. Because an identity can be brought to mind by seeing eyes only, we hypothesized that missing information might be filled-in from a memory trace for the whole face identity. We presented participants with faces in phase 1 and later we presented eyes-only in phase 2. For some of these eyes in phase 2, the whole face had been presented in the previous phase, for others identical eyes had been presented. Event-related potentials (ERPs) revealed an N170 component that was more negative when eyes were preceded by a whole face in the previous phase compared to eyes preceded by identical eyes-only. A more positive-going late positive complex (LPC) was also found, suggesting enhanced retrieval of face memory representations when eyes were preceded by whole faces. Our results show that pre-existing representations of face identity can influence early stages of visual encoding, 170 ms after stimulus onset. These effects may reflect top-down modulation by memory on visual recognition processes by filling-in the missing facial information.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory neurodegenerative disease with complex aetiology. A haplotype within the major histocompatibility region is the major risk factor for MS, but despite clear evidence for a genetic component additional risk variants were not identified until the recent advent of genome-wide association studies (GWAS). At present, 10 GWAS have been conducted in MS, and together with follow-up studies these have confirmed 16 loci with genome-wide significance. Many of these common risk variants are located at or near genes with central immunological functions and the majority are associated with other autoimmune diseases. However, evidence from pathway analyses on more modestly associated variants also supports the involvement of neurological genes. Although the mechanisms by which the associated variants exert their effects are still poorly understood, some have been shown to correlate with expression of nearby genes. Further studies are required to define the functionally relevant variants in the identified regions and to investigate their effects at the molecular and cellular level. Finally, many genetic risk variants for MS remain to be identified. In order to expose some of the loci with more modest effects, a GWAS in nearly 10,000 MS patients has recently been completed.
To study the biological mechanisms of the repair of the radiation-induced DNA damage leads to two major medical applications: (1) the identification of the radiosensitive patients by using appropriate predictive assays in order to avoid toxicity due to radiation therapy and sometimes to chemotherapy; (2) the decrease of the radioresistance of tumour cells to obtain a better local control. To transpose fundamental biological knowledge from experimental in vitro clinic is delicate and sometimes too hasty, though necessary. In mechanistic terms, clinical features are once again a very rich and under-exploited approach to identify the molecular mechanisms of the DNA repair function. An exhaustive survey of the clinical cases of radiosensitivity with biological samples and with long course surveillance is an inverse approach, probably promising but still difficult to apply. Unlike classical reviews, this article attempts to identify the major genetic syndromes associated with radiosensitivity and cancer predisposition in order to deduce the different stages of major mechanisms of DNA double-strand breaks repair. Emphasis is placed on the importance of studying this repair at the functional level. Surprisingly, among the genetic syndromes associated to radiosensitivity there are some anomalies, not linked to DNA repair itself but to the intracellular trafficking. The repair function but therefore also the signalling are then logically therapeutic targets applicable in radiotherapy but with a very accurate ballistic sparing of the healthy tissues.



Creativity is considered a positive personal trait. However, highly creative people have demonstrated elevated risk for certain forms of psychopathology, including mood disorders, schizophrenia spectrum disorders, and alcoholism. A model of shared vulnerability explains the relation between creativity and psychopathology. This model, supported by recent findings from neuroscience and molecular genetics, suggests that the biological determinants conferring risk for psychopathology interact with protective cognitive factors to enhance creative ideation. Elements of shared vulnerability include cognitive disinhibition (which allows more stimuli into conscious awareness), an attentional style driven by novelty salience, and neural hyperconnectivity that may increase associations among disparate stimuli. These vulnerabilities interact with superior meta-cognitive protective factors, such as high IQ, increased working memory capacity, and enhanced cognitive flexibility, to enlarge the range and depth of stimuli available in conscious awareness to be manipulated and combined to form novel and original ideas.

The actin cytoskeleton plays a key role in regulating cell motility. Caldesmon (CaD) is an actin-linked regulatory protein found in smooth muscle and non-muscle cells that is conserved among a variety of vertebrates. It binds and stabilizes actin filaments, as well as regulating actin-myosin interaction in a calcium (Ca2+)/calmodulin (CaM)- and/or phosphorylation-dependent manner. CaD function is regulated qualitatively by Ca2+/CaM and by its phosphorylation state and quantitatively at the mRNA level, by three different transcriptional regulation of the CALD1 gene. CaD has numerous functions in cell motility, such as migration, invasion, and proliferation, exerted via the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. Here we will outline recent findings regarding CaD's structural features and functions.
The majority of human embryonic stem cell lines depend on a feeder cell layer for continuous growth in vitro, so that they can remain in an undifferentiated state. Limited knowledge is available concerning the molecular mechanisms that underlie the capacity of feeder cells to support both the proliferation and pluripotency of these cells. Importantly, feeder cells generally lose their capacity to support human embryonic stem cell proliferation in vitro following long-term culture. In this study, we performed large-scale gene expression profiles of human foreskin fibroblasts during early, intermediate and late passages using a custom DNA microarray platform (NeuroStem 2.0 Chip). The microarray data was validated using RT-PCR and virtual SAGE analysis. Our comparative gene expression study identified a limited number of molecular targets potentially involved in the ability of human neonatal foreskin fibroblasts to serve as feeder cells for human embryonic stem cell cultures. Among these, the C-KIT, leptin and pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) genes were the most interesting candidates.
Catatonic syndromes involve a complex mixture of motor, behavioral, and systemic manifestations that are derived from unclear mechanisms. What is clear is that neurotransmitters, such as dopamine (DA), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and glutamate (GLU), are of major importance in the pathogenesis of catatonia and Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) and that serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) is crucial to the development of Serotonin Syndrome (SS). As medications with potent effects on modulation of monoamines proliferate, the diagnosis and management of these complex disorders become even more important. Without question, these syndromes have signs, symptoms and treatments that overlap, thus, considering the symptomatological load and the associated clinical burden (including potentially life-threatening conditions), the need for a better knowledge of the hypothesized biological mechanisms and pharmacological management is imperative. Although the search for a unique, conclusive approach to the management of catatonia is futile, stating the heterogeneity of the clinical pictures and the wide range of effective treatment choices (including non-pharmacological interventions), clinicians should not disregard an accurate, critical therapeutic approach to such a relevant, yet often disregarded, topic. The aim of this narrative review is to provide both clinicians and pharmacologists with a narrative, panoramic review on catatonia and associated clinical pictures, focusing on its general pharmacological management.
Mammalian p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are activated by various cellular stresses, as well as in response to inflammatory cytokines. In the central nervous systems (CNS), activation of the p38 MAPK pathway constitutes a key step in the development of several diseases, and the molecular mechanisms mediated by p38 MAPK signaling have been defined. Activation of this cascade releases pro-inflammatory cytokines that are known to be involved in cerebral ischemia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), neuropathic pain and depression. In AD, stimulated p38 MAPK may trigger the hyperphosphorylation of a neural microtubule-associated protein, tau. In addition, we have recently revealed that activation of p38 MAPK signaling decreases dendritic spine number, which may be associated with memory impairment after epileptic seizures. Thus, p38 MAPK can serve as a target for novel drug development for neural diseases. p38 MAPK inhibitors have been studied extensively in both preclinical experiments and clinical trials for inflammatory diseases. New p38 MAPK inhibitors are now being tested in phase II clinical trials for neuropathic pain and depression. Here, we review current and possible future applications of p38 MAPK inhibitors as therapeutic agents in neural diseases.
When stimuli compete for sensory processing and response selection, coherent goal-guided behavior requires cognitive control so that task-relevant &quot;targets&quot; rather than irrelevant distractors are selected. It has been shown that reduced cognitive control under high working memory load increases distractor competition for selection. It remains unknown, though, whether cognitive control by working memory has an effect on the earliest levels of sensory processing in primary visual cortex. The present study addressed this question by having subjects perform a selective attention task involving classification of meaningful target objects while also ignoring congruent and incongruent distractor images. The level of cognitive control over distractor competition was varied through a concurrent working memory task of either low (1 digit) or high (6 digits) load. Functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed greater distractor competition effects not only on behavior but also on the sensory correlates in primary visual cortex (areas V1-V2) in conditions of high (vs. low) working memory load. In addition, high working memory load resulted in increased congruency-related functional connectivity between anterior cingulate cortex and V1. These results are the first to establish the neural correlates of distractor competition effects in primary visual cortex and the critical role of working memory in their cognitive control.
Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is the most common early onset inherited ataxia with clinical manifestations, including gradual progression of unremitting cerebellar-sensory ataxia, peripheral sensory loss, loss of lower limb tendon reflexes and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Although atrophy of the superior cerebellar peduncle (SCP) has been reported in several magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of FRDA, the relationship of SCP changes to genetic and clinical features of FRDA has not been investigated. We acquired T1-weighted MRI scans in 12 right-handed individuals with FRDA, homozygous for a GAA expansion in intron 1 of FXN, as well as 13 healthy age-matched controls. The corrected cross-sectional areas of the right (left) SCP in the individuals with FRDA (R, 20  7.9 mm(2); L, 25  5.6 mm(2)) were significantly smaller than for controls (R, 68  16 mm(2); L, 78  17 mm(2)) (p &lt; 0.001). The SCP volumes of individuals with FRDA were negatively correlated with Friedreich's ataxia rating scale score (r = -0.553) and disease duration (r = -0.541), and positively correlated with the age of onset (r = 0.548) (p &lt; 0.05). These findings suggest that structural MR imaging of the SCP can provide a surrogate marker of disease severity in FRDA and support the potential role of structural MRI as a biomarker in the evaluation of neurodegenerative diseases and therapies.
Until recently, the cerebellum was primarily considered to be a structure involved in motor behaviour. New anatomical and clinical evidence has shown that the cerebellum is also involved in higher cognitive functions and non-motor behavioural changes. Functional imaging in patients with anxiety disorders and in cholecystokinin tetrapeptide-induced panic-attacks shows activation changes in the cerebellum. Deep brain stimulation of the dorsolateral periaqueductal grey (dlPAG) and the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) in rats has been shown to induce escape behaviour, which mimics a panic attack in humans. We used this animal model to study the neuronal activation in the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCbN) using c-Fos immunohistochemistry. c-Fos expression in the DCbN decreased significantly after inducing escape behaviour by stimulation of the dlPAG and the VMH, indicating that the DCbN were deactivated. This study demonstrates that the DCbN are directly or indirectly involved in panic attacks. We suggest that the cerebellum plays a role in the selection of relevant information, and that deactivation of the cerebellar nuclei is required to allow inappropriate behaviour to occur, such as panic attacks.
We study the role of network architecture in the formation of synchronous clusters in synaptically coupled networks of bursting neurons. We give a simple combinatorial algorithm that finds the largest synchronous clusters from the network topology. We demonstrate that networks with a certain degree of internal symmetries are likely to have cluster decompositions with relatively large clusters, leading potentially to cluster synchronization at the mesoscale network level. We also address the asymptotic stability of cluster synchronization in excitatory networks of Hindmarsh-Rose bursting neurons and derive explicit thresholds for the coupling strength that guarantees stable cluster synchronization.
Environmental experiences during development provide animals with important information about future conditions. Siberian hamsters are photoperiodic rodents that dramatically adjust their physiology and behavior to adapt to seasonal changes. For example, during short winter-like days, hamsters enhance some components of immune function putatively to cope with increasing environmental challenges. Furthermore, early life stress alters the developmental course of the immune system. Overall, immune function is typically suppressed in response to chronic stress, but responses vary depending on the type of stress and components of immune function assessed. This led us to hypothesize that delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH), an antigen-specific, cell-mediated immune response, would be differentially modulated in hamsters that underwent early life maternal separation (MS) in either short or long photoperiods. At birth, hamsters were assigned to either short (SD; 8 h light/day) or long (LD; 16 h light/day) photoperiods and either daily 3 h MS, daily 15-min brief maternal separation (BMS), or no manipulation from postnatal day 2 through 14. In adulthood DTH was assessed. Hamsters reared in short days enhanced DTH responses. MS and BMS attenuated DTH responses in both short and long days. However, BMS long-day female hamsters did not suppress pinna swelling, suggesting a protective effect of female sex steroids on immune function. As is typical in short days, reproductive tissue was regressed. Reproductive tissue mass was also decreased in long-day MS female hamsters. Furthermore, MS altered photoperiod-induced changes in body mass. Taken together, these findings suggest that manipulations of early life mother-pup interactions in Siberian hamsters result in physiological changes and suppressed cell-mediated immunity.
With the aging population in the Western hemisphere, neurodegenerative parkinsonism and dementia will become two of the great public health challenges of this century. A major pillar in the effort to treat these conditions will be the shift from symptomatic treatment to disease modifying therapy. This step will absolutely require cheap and reliable biomarkers; patients will need to be diagnosed before irreversible change has occurred. -Synuclein (S) is a recent candidate biomarker for Lewy body neurodegeneration. It is a 140 amino acid protein that forms the pathological substrate in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), as well as multiple system atrophy (MSA), a group of disorders collectively known as the synucleopathies. Biomarker research has investigated S in blood, skin and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Plasma assays have demonstrated inconsistent results but CSF assays show a higher degree of uniformity, mostly demonstrating lower levels of S in patients with Lewy body disease compared to controls. These results are not yet accurate or reliable enough to use as screening tools or isolated diagnostic tests in established disease. It has become clear that factors other than neurodegeneration affect S concentrations in these tissue samples, such as genetic and environmental influences. Future studies using standardized techniques and larger patient numbers are awaited to realise the full potential of S as a more definitive diagnostic biomarker.
Neurodegenerative diseases are major world wide causes of morbidity and mortality. They form a heterogeneous group of diseases, ranging from rare monogenic inherited errors of metabolism to common multi-factorial dementias. Major research efforts focus on the development of disease modifying drugs for neurodegenerative diseases. As a result, there follows a need for reliable tools for diagnosis, prognosis and monitoring of therapy. Processes in the brain can be monitored by analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Several CSF biomarkers of pathological processes in the brain are now available. Such biomarkers may be used for both research and in the clinical setting. However, several difficult problems remain to be solved. More intensive collaboration between academia, industry and government is likely needed to develop treatments and biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases. This article reviews the definitions, usage and current limitations of CSF biomarkers in this field.
Low serum protein and albumin are considered to significantly associate with malnutrition, impaired functional status, poor outcome, and mortality. We hypothesized that serum prealbumin (transthyretin, PA) was a reliable and robust survival marker in young cerebral infarction patients and attempted to test the foregoing hypothesis. We analyzed the relationship between serum PA and stroke severity as determined by the modified Rankin Scale at discharge in 585 young cerebral infarction patients. By multivariate logistic regression modeling, we determined the influence of prealbumin on stroke severity, and the analyses were adjusted for the effects of potential confounders. Patients with a severe stroke had significantly more often prealbumin on admission in the lowest quintile (P = 0.031). Those cardiogenic cerebral infarction patients had significantly lower serum prealbumin concentrations and higher mRS scores. A logistic regression adjusted for confounders confirmed the following independent (odds ratio, 95% CI) good outcome predictors: uric acid (-0.002, 0.996-1.000) and prealbumin (-0.003, 0.995-1.000). Prealbumin is an independent predictor of the good clinical outcome of young cerebral infarction patients. The serum prealbumin may be a useful prognostic indicator for judging the prognosis of cerebral infarction.






Case conceptualisation is the process of integrating the unique experience of the individual with psychological theory and is often described as a central process in effective therapy. Hence, a key question facing a clinician working from a cognitive behavioural perspective is which theory should be chosen as the basis of the conceptualisation with a particular client? We address this question by first considering the strengths and limitations of the disorder specific and trans-diagnostic approaches. From this, the differences between the approaches are framed as a conundrum or puzzle that is solved through a principle based approach to case conceptualisation that allows clinicians to individualise therapy by selecting and incorporating the most appropriate theory and research. Furthermore, by considering how to achieve lasting improvement for the client we emphasise incorporating client strengths and resilience into both disorder specific and trans-diagnostic approaches. To achieve this we necessarily extend beyond consideration of models of disorders, and draw on models of wellbeing, and resilience, and by doing so require theoretical accounts not only of disorders but also of resilience.


Multiple studies demonstrate the influence of the limbic system on the processing of sensory events and attentional guidance. But the mechanisms involved therein are yet not entirely clear. The close connection of handling incoming sensory information and memory retrieval, like in the case of habituation towards insignificant stimuli, suggests a crucial impact of the hippocampus on the direction of attention. In this paper we thus present a neurofunctional forward model of a hippocampal comparator function based on the theory of theta-regulated attention. Subsequently we integrated this comparator model into a multiscale framework for the simulation of evoked responses. The results of our simulations were compared to experimental data on electroencephalographic (EEG) correlates of habituation towards familiar stimuli using time-scale analysis. In consequence we are able to present additional evidence for limbic influences on the direction of attention driven by stimulus novelty and a systems neuroscience framework for the statements given in the theta-regulated attention hypothesis.
Retrieval is often subdivided into recollection and familiarity. Memory-strength and reaction time (RT) differ for each, complicating fMRI studies of these processes. Recollection leads to greater activity in the hippocampus and default network (DN). Increased DN activity with recollection is thought to reflect self-referential processes, but prior studies have not accounted for varying RT, which modulates DN activity and is consistently faster for recollection than familiarity. This study examined the influence of RT and memory-strength on recollection and familiarity activity. The results show the hippocampus functionally dissociated from DN during retrieval. DN was generally influenced by RT and signal was suppressed when subjects were task-engaged in recollection or familiarity; suppression was greater for slower trials of either type. The hippocampus showed a positive deflection of fMRI activity only for recollection trials; activation was greater for slower recollection trials, but RT did not influence hippocampal activity during familiarity trials.
While many behavioural studies on refractory phenomena in lexical/semantic access have focused on the mechanisms involved in the oral production of names, comprehension tasks have been almost exclusively used in neuropsychological studies on brain damaged patients. We report the results of two experiments on healthy participants conducted by means of speeded word to picture matching tasks. They assess the effects of the same variables examined in the study of refractory access dysphasic patients: semantic distance and word frequency (experiment 1) and presentation rate and serial position effects (experiment 2). Semantic access patients usually show little effect of word frequency but a large semantic distance effect. However, critical in characterising the syndrome as 'refractory', effects of presentation rate and serial position should also be present. The experiments involved the use of a deadline response procedure. The critical manipulation was the absence of a Response Stimulus Interval (RSI) in the fast presentation rate conditions; slower presentation rates involved 1 s RSI. With these manipulations the typical behavioural pattern of performance provided by semantic access dysphasic patients was reproduced. Semantic distance effects were more powerful than word frequency effects (experiment1). Presentation rate effects were found and, most important for a &quot;refractory&quot; account of the effects, a serial position effect was obtained (experiment 2). These results provide the first evidence of such a broad range of refractory effects at the same time in comprehension tasks in healthy subjects and support a purely semantic account for the locus of refractoriness. Moreover, error analysis showed a predominance of perseverative errors with subsequent representations of the same target, supporting a failure of cognitive control mechanisms as the cause of refractory behaviour. The findings are discussed in the light of current models of lexical and semantic processing.
Information between neurons and the target cells they innervate passes through sites of functional contact called synapses. How synapses form and are altered by sensory or cognitive experience is central to understand nervous system function. Studies of synapse formation and plasticity have concentrated on a few &quot;model&quot; synapses. The vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ), the synapse between a motoneuron in the spinal cord and a skeletal muscle fiber, is one such model synapse. The extracellular matrix proteoglycan agrin plays an essential organizing role at the NMJ. Agrin is also present at some synapses in the brain and in other organs in the periphery, but its function outside the NMJ is unclear. The core signaling pathway for agrin at the NMJ, which is still incompletely defined, includes molecules specifically involved in this cascade and molecules used in other signaling pathways in many cells. Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are evolutionarily conserved components of intracellular signaling modules that control a myriad of cellular processes. This article reviews emerging evidence that suggests that MAPKs are involved in agrin signaling at the NMJ and in the putative functions of agrin in the formation of a subset of synapses in the brain.

This study was designed to develop a revised diagnostic criteria set for intermittent explosive disorder (IED) for consideration for inclusion in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-V). This revised criteria set was developed by integrating previous research criteria with elements from the current DSM-IV set of diagnostic criteria. Evidence supporting the reliability and validity of IED-IR (&quot;IED Integrated Criteria&quot;) in a new and well-characterized group of subjects with personality disorder is presented. Clinical, phenomenologic, and diagnostic data from 201 individuals with personality disorder were reviewed. All IED diagnoses were assigned using a best-estimate process (eg, kappa for IED-IR &gt;0.85). In addition, subjects meeting IED-IR criteria had higher scores on dimensional measures of aggression and had lower global functioning scores than non-IED-IR subjects, even when related variables were controlled. The IED-IR criteria were more sensitive than the DSM-IV criteria only in identifying subjects with significant impulsive-aggressive behavior by a factor of 16. We conclude that the IED-IR criteria can be reliably applied and have sufficient validity to warrant consideration as DSM-V criteria for IED.
This paper presents a review of studies that were aimed at determining which brain regions are recruited during visual self-recognition, with a particular focus on self-face recognition. A complex bilateral network, involving frontal, parietal and occipital areas, appears to be associated with self-face recognition, with a particularly high implication of the right hemisphere. Results indicate that it remains difficult to determine which specific cognitive operation is reflected by each recruited brain area, in part due to the variability of used control stimuli and experimental tasks. A synthesis of the interpretations provided by previous studies is presented. The relevance of using self-recognition as an indicator of self-awareness is discussed. We argue that a major aim of future research in the field should be to identify more clearly the cognitive operations induced by the perception of the self-face, and search for dissociations between neural correlates and cognitive components.
Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of severe vision loss in older adults and impairs the ability to read, drive, and live independently and increases the risk for depression, falls, and earlier mortality. Although new medical treatments have improved AMD's prognosis, vision-related disability remains a major public health problem. Improving Function in AMD (IF-AMD) is a two-group randomized, parallel design, controlled clinical trial that compares the efficacy of Problem-Solving Therapy (PST) with Supportive Therapy (ST) (an attention control treatment) to improve vision function in 240 patients with AMD. PST and ST therapists deliver 6 one-hour respective treatment sessions to subjects in their homes over 2 months. Outcomes are assessed masked to treatment assignment at 3 months (main trial endpoint) and 6 months (maintenance effects). The primary outcome is targeted vision function (TVF), which refers to specific vision-dependent functional goals that subjects highly value but find difficult to achieve. TVF is an innovative outcome measure in that it is targeted and tailored to individual subjects yet is measured in a standardized way. This paper describes the research methods, theoretical and clinical aspects of the study treatments, and the measures used to evaluate functional and psychiatric outcomes in this population.
Faces and voices are key features of human recognition but the way the brain links them together is still unknown. In this study, we measured brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while participants were recognizing previously learned static faces, voices and voice-static face associations. Using a subtraction method between bimodal and unimodal conditions, we observed that voice-face associations activated both unimodal visual and auditory areas, and specific multimodal regions located in the left angular gyrus and the right hippocampus. Moreover, a functional connectivity analysis confirmed the connectivity of the right hippocampus with the unimodal areas. These findings demonstrate that binding faces and voices rely on a cerebral network sustaining different aspects of integration such as sensory inputs processing, attention and memory.

The importance of inflammatory processes in Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression has been confirmed during the past decade by the intensive investigation of inflammatory mediators in the brain of AD patients as well as by the genetic and drug manipulation of animal models of AD. Imaging studies have revealed that the activation of microglia occurs in early stages of the disease, even before plaque and tangle formation, and is correlated with early cognitive deficits. In this review, we analyze how different risk factors, such as trauma, stroke, infection, and metabolic diseases can lead to an acceleration of the inflammatory response in the AD brain and to an increased risk of developing this disorder. The use of imaging techniques for early detection of glial activation which offer the advantage of investigating how potential anti-inflammatory therapies may influence disease progression and levels of cognition is also discussed.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of neurodegenerative dementias worldwide. Amyloid- deposition, neurofibrillary tangle formation and Neuroinflammation are the major pathogenetic mechanisms that in concert lead to memory dysfunction and decline of cognition. To date, there is no curative treatment for AD. Epidemiological analysis support the notion that sustained intake of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduce the risk and delay the onset of AD. In contrast, therapeutic studies testing NSAID efficacy in AD patients have not yielded positive results. This suggests that either the investigated drugs have not addressed the mechanism of action required for mediating beneficial effects or that NSAIDs are effective at stages way before clinical onset of symptoms. The NSAIDs concerned are pleiotrophic in nature and interact with more than one pathomechanism. Therefore evidence for more than one neuroprotective action of NSAIDs has been put forward and it seems likely that some of the drugs act at multiple levels through more than one molecular mechanism. Some, even may not only be beneficial, but negative actions may be overruled by protective effects. Within these mechanisms, modulation of -secretase activity, the activation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-, binding to prostaglandin receptors or interactions at the blood-brain barrier may account for the observed protection from AD. This article reviews the current knowledge and views on the above mechanisms and critically discusses current obstacles and the potential as future AD therapeutics.
It is well known that interindividual variability can affect the response to many drugs in relation to age, gender, diet, and organ function. Pharmacogenomic studies have also documented that genetic polymorphisms can exert clinically significant effects in terms of drug resistance, efficacy and toxicity by modifying the expression of critical gene products (drug-metabolizing enzymes, transporters, and target molecules) as well as pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters. A growing body of in vitro and clinical evidence suggests that common polymorphisms in the folate gene pathway are associated with an altered response to methotrexate (MTX) in patients with malignancy and autoimmune disease. Such polymorphisms may also induce significant MTX toxicity requiring expensive monitoring and treatment. Although the available data are not conclusive, they suggest that in the future MTX pharmacogenetics could play a key role in clinical practice by improving and tailoring treatment. This review describes the genetic polymorphisms that significantly influence MTX resistance, efficacy, and toxicity.
High doses of the recreational drug 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;Ecstasy&quot;) have been well-documented to reduce the expression of serotonergic markers in several forebrain regions of rats and nonhuman primates. Neuroimaging studies further suggest that at least one of these markers, the plasma membrane serotonin transporter (SERT), may also be reduced in heavy Ecstasy users. Such effects, particularly when observed in experimental animal models, have generally been interpreted as reflecting a loss of serotonergic fibers and terminals following MDMA exposure. This view has been challenged, however, based on the finding that MDMA usually does not elicit glial cell reactions known to occur in response to central nervous system (CNS) damage. The aim of this review is to address both sides of the MDMA-neurotoxicity controversy, including recent findings from our laboratory regarding the potential of MDMA to induce serotonergic damage in a rat binge model. Our data add to the growing literature implicating neuroregulatory mechanisms underlying MDMA-induced serotonergic dysfunction and questioning the need to invoke a degenerative response to explain such dysfunction.


The use of lentiviral vectors for transgene delivery in vitro and in vivo for applications in neuroscience, hematology, developmental biology, stem cell biology, and transgenesis has become commonplace. Lentiviral vectors provide an attractive tool for transgene delivery in part because of their ability to incorporate (integrate) into the genomic DNA of target cells with high efficiency, especially in cells that are not actively dividing. In addition, lentiviral vector-mediated transgene )expression can be maintained for long periods of time. In this unit, we describe protocols for lentiviral vector production in protein-free media using polyethylenimine (PEI)-mediated transfection, resulting in consistent lentiviral vector stocks. Such stocks are then concentrated by ultracentrifugation. We also provide reliable QPCR protocols to titrate lentiviral vectors based on vector DNA copies present in genomic DNA extracted from transduced cells. The vector production and titration protocol described here can be completed within 8 days.
The lack of therapies fostering remyelination and regeneration of the neural network deranged by the autoimmune attack occurring in multiple sclerosis (MS), is raising great expectations about stem cells therapies for tissue repair. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been proposed as a possible treatment for MS due to the reported capacity of transdifferentiation into neural cells and their ability at modulating immune responses. However, recent studies have demonstrated that many other functional properties are likely to play a role in the therapeutic plasticity of MSCs, including anti-apoptotic, trophic and anti-oxidant effects. These features are mostly based on the paracrine release of soluble molecules, often dictated by local environmental cues. Based on the modest evidence of long-term engraftment and the striking clinical effects that are observed immediately after MSCs administration in the experimental model of MS, we do not favor a major role for transdifferentiation as an important mechanism involved in the therapeutic effect of MSCs.
CC Chemokine ligand 22 (Ccl22) is a selective, high affinity ligand at the CC chemokine receptor 4 (Ccr4). We have identified cDNAs encoding both ligand and receptor of the Ccl22-Ccr4 pair in cDNA libraries of the anterior hypothalamus/pre-optic area (AH/POA) by PCR. The AH/POA is the key brain region where endogenous pyrogens have been shown to act on warm sensitive neurons to affect thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue (BAT) and other thermogenically responsive tissues. We show that functional Ccr4 receptors are present in the AH/POA neurons as injection of Ccl22 into the POA but not to other hypothalamic nuclei induces an increase in core body temperature as measured by radiotelemetry. Indomethacin (5 mg/kg s.c) pre-treatment markedly reduced the hyperthermia evoked by POA injection of Ccl22 (10 ng/0.5 ul) and thus suggests that this hyperthermia is mediated through cyclooxygenase activation and thus likely through the formation and action of the pyrogen prostaglandin E2. The temperature elevation involves a decrease in the respiratory exchange ratio and increased activation of the brown adipose tissue as demonstrated by F-FDG-PET imaging. We describe a novel role to the ligand Ccl22 and its receptor Ccr4 in the anterior hypothalamus in temperature regulation that depends on the synthesis of the endogenous pyrogen, prostaglandin E2.

The organization of neocortex, along its radial axis, into a six-layered structure is one of the most exquisite features of the brain. Because of their strategic localization in the marginal zone, and their expression of reelin, a signal that controls spatial ordering of cortical layers, Cajal-Retzius (C-R) cells play a crucial role in cortical patterning along this axis. Yet, it remains less well understood how C-R cell targeting itself is regulated. At the onset of corticogenesis when C-R cells first arrive in the cortex via tangential migration, radial glia (RG) are the main cell type present. This suggests that RG may play a role in C-R cell localization. To test this, we used genetic approaches to perturb RG scaffold during early corticogenesis. We found that disrupting RG endfoot adhesion to basal lamina consistently results in C-R cell displacement. These displacements do not appear to result from primary defects in neural progenitor cell proliferation, deficits in the meninges or basement membrane, or cell autonomous defects in C-R cells. Instead, they show close temporal and spatial correlation with RG endfoot retraction. Moreover, ablation of RG via cell cycle blockade similarly results in local displacement of C-R cells. These lines of evidence thus indicate that, during early corticogenesis, RG play a primary role in regulating spatial targeting of C-R cells. Since RG are also neural progenitors as well as neuronal migration scaffolds, these findings suggest that, during nervous system development, neuroepithelial stem cells may not only be responsible for generating a diverse array of neuronal cell types and facilitating their radial migration. They may also, through regulating the placement of guidepost cells, coordinate spatial patterning of the nervous system along its radial axis.
In the CNS, the evolutionarily conserved Notch pathway regulates asymmetric cell fate specification to daughters of ganglion mother cells (GMCs). The E3 Ubiquitin ligase protein Neuralized (Neur) is thought to activate Notch-signaling by the endocytosis of Delta and the Delta-bound extracellular domain of Notch. The intracellular Notch then initiates Notch-signaling. Numb blocks N-signaling in one of the two daughters of a GMC, allowing that cell to adopt a different identity. Numb is asymmetrically localized in a GMC and is segregated to only one of the two daughter cells. In the typical GMC-1RP2/sib lineage, we found that loss of Neur activity causes symmetric division of GMC-1 into two RP2s. We further found that Neur asymmetrically localizes in a late GMC-1 to the Numb domain and Neur mediates asymmetric division via two distinct, sequential mechanisms: by promoting the asymmetric localization of Numb in a GMC-1 via down-regulation of the transcription factor Pdm1, followed by enhancing the Notch-signaling via trans-potentiation of Notch in a cell committed to become a sib. In neur mutants the GMC-1 identity is not altered but Numb is non-asymmetrically localized due to an up-regulation of Pdm1. Thus, both its daughters inherit Numb, which prevents Notch from specifying a sib identity. Neur also enhances Notch since in neur; numb double mutants, both sibling cells often adopt a mixed fate as opposed to an RP2 fate observed in Notch; numb double mutants. Furthermore, over-expression of Neur can induce both cells to adopt a sib fate similar to gain of function Notch. Our results tie Numb and Notch-signaling through a single player, Neur, thus giving us a more complete picture of the events surrounding asymmetric division of precursor cells. We also show that Neur and Numb are interdependent for their asymmetric-localizations.

Cortisol levels were compared in children born preterm at extremely low gestational age (ELGA; 24-28 weeks), very low gestational age (VGLA; 29-32 weeks), and full-term in response to cognitive assessment at 18 months corrected age (CA). Further, we investigated the relationship between maternal interactive behaviors and child internalizing behaviors (rated by the mother) in relation to child cortisol levels. EGLA children had higher &quot;pretest&quot; cortisol levels and a different pattern of cortisol response to cognitive assessment compared to VGLA and full-terms. Higher cortisol levels in ELGA, but not full-term, children were associated with less optimal mother interactive behavior. Moreover, the pattern of cortisol change was related to internalizing behaviors among ELGA, and to a lesser degree VLGA children. In conclusion, our findings suggest altered programming of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in preterm children, as well as their greater sensitivity to environmental context such as maternal interactive behavior.
Family relationships help shape species-typical social and emotional development, but our understanding of how this shaping occurs is still relatively limited. Prairie voles are a socially monogamous and biparental species that is well situated to complement traditional animal models, such as rats and mice, in investigating the effects of family experience. In this series of studies, we aimed to test hypotheses relating to how prairie vole families function under undisturbed, standard laboratory conditions. In the first study, we compared the parental behavior of primiparous biparental (BP) and single-mother (SM) prairie vole family units for 12 postnatal days and then tested for sex differences, behavioral coordination, and family structure effects. Under BP conditions, nest attendance was coordinated and shared equally by both sexes, while pup-directed and partner-directed licking and grooming (LG) were coordinated in a sex and social-context-dependent manner. Contrary to our expectations, SMs showed no evidence of strong parental compensation in response to the lack of the father, indicating a minimal effect of family structure on maternal behavior but a large effect on pup care. In the second study, we examined the effects of these BP and SM rearing conditions on family dynamics in the next generation and found that SM-reared adult parents exhibited lower rates of pup-directed LG in comparison to BP-reared counterparts. Situated in the context of human family dynamics and psychology, these results suggest that the study in prairie voles may help improve our understanding of family systems and how perturbations to these systems can affect adults and offspring.
The perception of speech and music requires processing of variations in spectra and amplitude over different time intervals. Near-term fetuses can discriminate acoustic features, such as frequencies and spectra, but whether they can process complex auditory streams, such as speech sequences and more specifically their temporal variations, fast or relatively slow acoustic variations, is unclear. We recorded the cardiac activity of 82 near-term fetuses (38 weeks GA) in quiet sleep during a silent control condition and four 15 s streams presented at 90 dB SPL Leq: two piano melodies with opposite contours, a natural Icelandic sentence and a chimera of the sentence--all its spectral information was replaced with broadband noise, leaving its specific temporal variations in amplitude intact without any phonological information. All stimuli elicited a heart rate deceleration. The response patterns to the melodies were the same and differed significantly from those observed with the Icelandic sentence and its chimera, which did not differ. The melodies elicited a monophasic heart rate deceleration, indicating a stimulus orienting reflex while the Icelandic and its chimera evoked a sustained lower magnitude response, indicating a sustained attentional response or more focused information processing. A conservative interpretation of the data is that near-term fetuses can perceive sound streams and the rapid temporal variations in amplitude that are specific to speech sounds with no spectral variations at all.
Within the vertebrate lineage, a high proportion of duplicate genes have been retained after whole genome duplication (WGD) events. It has been proposed that many of these duplicate genes became indispensable because the ancestral gene function was divided between them. In addition, novel functions may have evolved, owing to changes in cis-regulatory elements. Functional analysis of the PAX2/5/8 gene subfamily appears to support at least the first part of this hypothesis. The collective role of these genes has been widely retained, but sub-functions have been differentially partitioned between the genes in different vertebrates. Conserved non-coding elements (CNEs) represent an interesting and readily identifiable class of putative cis-regulatory elements that have been conserved from fish to mammals, an evolutionary distance of 450 million years. Within the PAX2/5/8 gene subfamily, PAX2 is associated with the highest number of CNEs. An additional WGD experienced in the teleost lineage led to two copies of pax2, each of which retained a large proportion of these CNEs. Using a reporter gene assay in zebrafish embryos, we have exploited this rich collection of regulatory elements in order to determine whether duplicate CNEs have evolved different functions. Remarkably, we find that even highly conserved sequences exhibit more functional differences than similarities. We also discover that short flanking sequences can have a profound impact on CNE function. Therefore, if CNEs are to be used as candidate enhancers for transgenic studies or for multi-species comparative analyses, it is paramount that the CNEs are accurately delineated.


Evidence from lesion and inactivation studies suggests that the hippocampus (HPC) and dorsal striatum compete for control over navigation behavior, and there is some evidence in males that the structure with greater relative activation controls behavior. Estradiol has been shown to enhance HPC-dependent place learning and impair dorsal striatum-dependent response learning in female rats, possibly by increasing hippocampal activation and/or decreasing striatal activation. We used Fos-immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) to examine the activation of several subregions of the HPC and striatum in ovariectomized female rats with or without estradiol replacement 30 min after place or response learning. In 4-month-old rats, neither task nor estradiol increased Fos-IR above explore control levels in any subregion analyzed, even though estradiol impaired response learning. In 12-month-old rats, estradiol increased Fos-IR in the dentate gyrus, dorsal medial striatum, and dorsal lateral striatum in place task learners, while the absence of estradiol increased Fos-IR in these regions in response task learners. However, learning rate was not affected by estradiol in either task. We also included a group of long-term ovariectomized 12-month-old rats that displayed impaired place learning and altered Fos-IR in CA1 of the HPC. These results suggest that task-specific effects of estradiol on hippocampal and striatal activation emerge across age but that relative hippocampal and striatal activation are not related to learning rate during spatial navigation learning.
Defective melanocortin signaling causes hyperphagic obesity in humans and the melanocortin-4 receptor knockout mouse (MC4R(-/-)). The human disease most commonly presents, however, as haploinsufficiency of the MC4R. This study validates the MC4R(+/-) mouse as a model of the human disease in that, like the MC4R(-/-), the MC4R(+/-) mouse also exhibits a sustained hyperphagic response to dietary fat. Furthermore, both saturated and monounsaturated fats elicit this response. N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine (NAPE) is a signaling lipid induced after several hours of high-fat feeding, that, if dysregulated, might explain the feeding behavior in melanocortin obesity syndrome. Remarkably, however, MC4R(-/-) mice produce elevated levels of NAPE and are fully responsive to the anorexigenic activity of NAPE and oleoylethanolamide. Interestingly, additional differences in N-acylethanolamine (NAE) biochemistry were seen in MC4R(-/-) animals, including reduced plasma NAE levels and elevated hypothalamic levels of fatty acid amide hydrolase expression. Thus, while reduced expression of NAPE or NAE does not explain the high-fat hyperphagia in the melanocortin obesity syndrome, alterations in this family of signaling lipids are evident. Analysis of the microstructure of feeding behavior in response to dietary fat in the MC4R(-/-) and MC4R(+/-) mice indicates that the high-fat hyperphagia involves defective satiation and an increased rate of food intake, suggesting defective satiety signaling and enhanced reward value of dietary fat.

Here, we briefly summarize the most consistent structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies on amygdala in major depression and debate the effects of clinical variables on amygdalar morphology.




Partial and full own-body illusions of neurological origin have been claimed crucial to understand the contribution of bodily experience and perception to self-consciousness. Whereas partial body illusions are relatively common and well defined, much less is known about full own-body illusions, and even less is known about these illusions in children. Here we describe a 10-year-old patient with the association of partial and full own-body illusions (somatoparaphrenia and out-of-body experience) that occurred sequentially during an epileptic seizure caused by right temporoparietal epilepsy. This report shows that partial and full own-body illusions share functional and neuroanatomical properties and highlights the importance of the right temporoparietal junction for bodily self-consciousness. This is the first report of out-of-body experiences in a child with focal epilepsy.
Early-onset epilepsy is associated with a poor cognitive outcome, with the cumulative burden of both ictal and interictal epileptiform discharges likely to contribute significantly. Memory consolidation has been shown to occur during sleep in healthy children, with an associated electroencephalographic signature. This may be disrupted in children with epilepsy, who exhibit a high incidence of sleep disorders, whether directly related to their seizures or as a comorbidity. Conversely, seizure semiology may be influenced by sleep. In this review we present clinical and experimental evidence that suggests that the disruption of sleep architecture by epileptiform discharges may be an important factor contributing to cognitive impairment in children with epilepsy.
In the 1990s there was intense interest in ionotropic glutamate receptors as therapeutic targets for diverse neurological disorders, including epilepsy. NMDA receptors were thought to play a key role in the generation of seizures, leading to clinical studies of NMDA receptor blocking drugs in epilepsy. Disappointing results dampened enthusiasm for ionotropic glutamate receptors as a therapeutic target. Eventually it became appreciated that another type of ionotropic glutamate receptor, the AMPA receptor, is actually the predominant mediator of excitatory neurotransmission in the central nervous system and moreover that AMPA receptors are critical to the generation and spread of epileptic activity. As drugs became available that selectively target AMPA receptors, it was possible to demonstrate that AMPA receptor antagonists have powerful antiseizure activity in in vitro and in vivo models. A decade later, promising clinical studies with AMPA receptor antagonists, including the potent noncompetitive antagonist perampanel, are once again focusing attention on AMPA receptors as a drug target for epilepsy therapy.
The KCNAB1 gene is a candidate susceptibility factor for lateral temporal epilepsy (LTE) because of its functional interaction with LGI1, the gene responsible for the autosomal dominant form of LTE. We investigated association between polymorphic variants across the KCNAB1 gene and LTE. The allele and genotype frequencies of 14 KCNAB1 intronic SNPs were determined in 142 Italian LTE patients and 104 healthy controls and statistically evaluated. Single SNP analysis revealed one SNP (rs992353) located near the 3'end of KCNAB1 slightly associated with LTE after multiple testing correction (odds ratio=2.25; 95% confidence interval 1.26-4.04; P=0.0058). Haplotype analysis revealed two haplotypes with frequencies higher in cases than in controls, and these differences were statistically significant after permutation tests (Psim=0.047 and 0.034). One of these haplotypes was shown to confer a high risk for the syndrome (odds ratio=12.24; 95% confidence interval 1.32-113.05) by logistic regression analysis. These results support KCNAB1 as a susceptibility gene for LTE, in agreement with previous studies showing that this gene may alter susceptibility to focal epilepsy.
This study provides evidence of non-verbal cognitive functioning in temporal (TLE) and frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE) patients by exploring the mechanisms and neural correlates of drawing abilities. Sixty-six patients with left (n=32) or right TLE (n=34), 30 patients with left (n=18) or right FLE (n=12), and 30 healthy subjects were compared. The Drawing from Memory (DfM) test required participants to design 16 living or non-living items; the total score was the sum of all scores blindly provided by three judges who had to identify the drawings. The verbal and visual Pyramid and Palm Trees Test (PPTT), Raven Colored Progressive Matrices (Raven CPM), Cube Analysis, Token Test, Word Fluency, Card Classification, and Rey Complex Figure Test Copy trial (Rey CFC) assessed different verbal and non-verbal functions. Non-parametric statistics indicated that, with respect to controls, both TLE groups and the left FLE patients had significantly lower DfM scores. In the TLE group, hierarchical regression analyses revealed that the DfM score was predicted by the Raven CPM and PPTT scores, while, in the FLE group, it was predicted by the Rey CFC. Thus, drawing abilities may be impaired by TLE or FLE owing to different mechanisms that involve semantic or executive abilities. Implying cooperation between temporal and frontal areas that support these functions, DfM may be a sensitive index of integrity of cortical areas or neural pathways damaged by focal epilepsy.
Facio-mandibular myoclonus is a parasomnia characterized by forceful myoclonus of masticatory muscles in sleep. This condition typically presents with recurrent nocturnal tongue biting, which can be misdiagnosed for nocturnal seizures. The use of surface electromyographic channels over the facial muscles during video-EEG monitoring is helpful in confirming the diagnosis based on a typical burst pattern. This case report highlights difficulties in the diagnosis of facio-mandibular myoclonus and useful features which differentiate it from similar conditions.
To detect change in mental development or intelligence over two years following hemispherectomy in children with pharmacologically intractable epilepsy. Seventeen infants and preschoolers (median age at epilepsy onset of 0.0 years and at hemispherectomy 1.5 years; epilepsy duration of 0.2-2.6 years) and 12 older children (median age at onset of 1.0 year and at hemispherectomy 8.3 years; epilepsy duration of 1.1-11.7 years) with pharmacologically intractable seizures due to developmental, acquired or progressive pathology. Prospective study with consecutive inclusion of children, fixed assessment intervals (shortly before and 6, 12 and 24 months after hemispherectomy) and assessment using developmental scales and intelligence scales. Dependent variables included mental developmental index (MDI), mental age (MA) and mental developmental delay (MDD) in younger children and intelligence quotient (IQ) in older children. Mental development had arrested or deteriorated prior to hemispherectomy in 14 children (82%) assessed with developmental scales. In 14 children, it was not possible to more precisely determine MDI than &quot;below the lowest MDI that the test manual provided&quot; either before or after hemispherectomy. MA, however, increased in 16 children. Overall, IQ changed negligibly over two years after hemispherectomy, although an individual approach revealed variability. Children with Rasmussen encephalitis did not recover from the significant presurgical deterioration of intelligence. Removal of the affected hemisphere enables epileptic children, even those with severe mental delay, to further develop mentally.

Bipolar disorder (BD) has been associated with a proinflammatory state in which TNF- seems to play a relevant role. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the plasma levels of TNF- and its soluble receptors (sTNFR1 and sTNFR2) in BD patients in mania and euthymia in comparison with control subjects. We evaluated 53 BD patients (34 in mania and 19 in euthymia) and 38 healthy subjects. All subjects were assessed by the Mini-International Neuropsychiatry Interview (MINI-Plus). Patients were also evaluated by the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) and by Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). Plasma TNF- and its soluble receptors were measured by ELISA. The plasma TNF- and sTNFR2 levels did not differ between groups, but higher sTNFR1 levels were found in BD patients. Of note, BD patients in mania had higher sTNFR1 levels than BD patients in euthymia and controls. The sTNFR1 and sTNFR2 levels correlated with BD duration, and sTNFR2 levels correlated with age of patients. Our data indicate a proinflammatory status in BD patients during mania and further suggest that inflammatory mechanisms may be involved with the physiopathology of BD.
This paper reports an analysis of the principles underlying human performances on the basis of the work initiated by Pietro Enrico di Prampero. Starting from the concept that the maximal speed that can be attained over a given distance with a given locomotion mode is directly proportional to the maximal sustainable power and inversely proportional to the energy cost of locomotion, we discuss the maximal powers (and capacities) of anaerobic (lactic and alactic) and aerobic metabolisms and the factors that limit them, and the factors affecting the energy cost of various locomotion modes. Special attention is given to the role of air resistance and frictional forces. Finally, computation of performance speed is discussed along the approach originally developed by di Prampero.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that involves the neurones of multiple transmitter pathways. The dopaminergic neuronal degeneration determines the main early clinical characteristics of the disease. There have been many recent valuable insights into the pathogenesis of PD, driven primarily by research of the genetic causes of the disease. These now provide a clearer view of the pathways that lead to neuronal dysfunction and death. Perhaps surprisingly, the same pathways initiated by gene mutations causing familial PD are those already identified to be involved in idiopathic sporadic PD, namely mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress and protein misfolding and aggregation. Novel therapies designed to slow PD progression are likely to intervene in one or more of these pathways. Some candidates have been tested based upon this hypothesis, albeit with varying results. Significant developments in this area face several challenges including effective disease-modelling systems and clinical trial designs that can enable a true positive result to be obtained in a relatively short period.
Intermittent or pulsatile dopamine-receptor stimulation is postulated to induce plastic changes in motor systems that are responsible for the development of motor fluctuations and dyskinesia, complicating long-term levodopa therapy of Parkinson's disease (PD). Continuous dopamine stimulation (CDS) is a concept that refers to the hypothesis that more continuous dopamine-receptor stimulation will reduce the risk of motor complications, particularly dyskinesias, and may also treat established dyskinesias. In line with this hypothesis, the intermittent administration of dopaminergic agents with short half-lives induce motor complications in animal models, whilst the continuous administration of the same compounds via mini-pumps substantially reduces such symptoms. Continuous drug delivery (CDD) strategies are therefore explored in clinical trials to prevent or manage motor complications. The early use of a dopamine agonist reduces the risk of motor fluctuations compared with levodopa. Conversely, the early combination of the catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor entacapone with levodopa has failed to demonstrate a comparable advantage. Outcomes of uncontrolled long-term studies of PD patients with motor complications treated for several months with subcutaneous continuous infusion of apomorphine or intraduodenal levodopa are compatible with CDS. New once-daily prolonged-release formulations of dopamine agonists have demonstrated antiparkinsonian efficacy in randomized trials conducted in early as well as advanced patients with PD. Once-daily administration is convenient and may improve compliance. Other theoretical advantages in terms of efficacy or tolerability deserve further exploration.




Adult neurogenesis is a sophisticated biological process whose function has remained a mystery to neuroscience researchers. To address this question, a number of unique modeling studies have explored the computational implications of adding new neurons to the adult dentate gyrus. Models of neurogenesis fall into two broad categories: abstract models that explore the function of new neurons in simple networks, and biologically based models that investigate the role of new neurons in networks based on the anatomy of the hippocampus. In this review, we summarize the strategies and results of these different modeling approaches, and we discuss their conclusions and limitations in the face of new biological findings.
It is well established that seizures increase adult neurogenesis in the subventricular and subgranular zones, the most neurogenic regions of the adult rodent and apparently human brain. However, the role of increased neurogenesis in these areas in seizure generation (ictogenesis) and epileptogenesis remains elusive. It is of utmost importance to explore how the cells that are born in response to epileptic seizures are functionally integrated into the existing neuronal networks, and how this integration would contribute to the excitability of this network. This will determine whether increased neurogenesis is beneficial or counteractive to ictogenesis and epileptogenesis. Some of the crucial factors affecting the functional integration of newborn cells seem to be excessive neuronal activity and/or inflammatory microenvironment, both associated with acute, as well as chronic, epileptic conditions. This review will focus on aspects of the functional integration of newborn cells in animal models of epilepsy with various degrees of seizure severity and associated microenvironmental alterations in the brain tissue.
Rather than a singular event that suddenly appears during adulthood, adult neurogenesis has long been recognized as the continuation of postnatal neurogenic activity. During the first postnatal weeks, significant cellular changes occur within and adjacent to germinal matrices of the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus. The majority of granule cells are generated during this period. In addition, radial glia are transformed into astrocyte-like stem cells, the ependymal layer is formed, and the highest rates of angiogenesis, gliogenesis and myelination are observed. The first postnatal weeks are critical as the brain growth rate is maximal, and changes during this period can have a great impact on neurogenesis levels and overall brain function later in life. This review chronicles cellular changes and some of the clinically relevant dysregulations that can occur during the postnatal period, and discusses the possible impact of these changes on neurogenesis and cognitive function later in life.
Adult dentate gyrus produces new neurons continuously throughout life. Multiple lines of evidence have pointed to the possibility that young neurons during a certain maturational stage mediate an important role in memory processing. In this review, we highlight the existing evidence of a 'critical period' for new neurons in their involvement in memory formation, describe the unique properties of young neurons as potential mechanisms underlying the critical period, and discuss the implications of the critical period for the function of adult neurogenesis.
Psychiatric and neurological diseases combined represent a considerable social and economic burden in Europe. A recent study conducted by the European Brain Council (EBC) quantified the 'cost and burden' of major brain diseases in Europe, amounting to 386bn per year. Considering that these costs will increase exponentially in the years to come due to ageing of the European population, it is necessary to act now in order to curb this increase and possibly reverse the trend. Thus, establishing a strong European platform supporting basic and clinical research in neuroscience is needed to confront the economic and social challenge posed by management of brain diseases in European countries. To setup a platform for discussion, EBC published in 2006 a Consensus Document on European Brain Research, describing needs and achievements of research in Europe and presenting proposals for future research programs. Since 2006, European research in neuroscience has advanced tremendously. The present document represents an update elaborated to reflect changes in research priorities and advances in brain research that have taken place since 2006. The same approach and format have been used here as in the previous version. Multinational and multidisciplinary teams have once again come together to express their views, not only on the current strengths in European research, but also on what needs to be done in priority, hoping that this update will inspire policy makers and stakeholders in directing funding for research in Europe.

We used concurrent transcranial magnetic stimulation and functional MRI (TMS-fMRI) during a visuospatial cueing paradigm in humans, to study the causal role of the right angular gyrus (AG) as a source of attentional control. Our findings show that TMS over the right AG (high vs. low intensity) modulates neural responses interhemispherically, in a manner that varies dynamically with the current attentional condition. The behavioural impact of such TMS depended not only on the target hemifield but also on exogenous cue validity, facilitating spatial reorienting to invalidly cued right visual targets. On a neural level, right AG TMS had corresponding interhemispheric effects in the left AG and left retinotopic cortex, including area V1. We conclude that the direction of covert visuospatial attention can involve dynamic interplay between the right AG and remote interconnected regions of the opposite left hemisphere, whereas our findings also suggest that the right AG can influence responses in the retinotopic visual cortex.
In mammals, intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) mediate various non-image-forming photic responses, such as circadian photoentrainment, pupillary light reflex and pineal melatonin suppression. ipRGCs directly respond to environmental light by activation of the photopigment melanopsin followed by the opening of an unidentified cation-selective channel. Studies in heterologous expression systems and in the native retina have strongly implicated diacylglycerol-sensitive transient receptor potential channels containing TRPC3, TRPC6 and TRPC7 subunits in melanopsin-evoked depolarization. Here we show that melanopsin-evoked electrical responses largely persist in ipRGCs recorded from early postnatal (P6-P8) and adult (P22-P50) mice lacking expression of functional TRPC3, TRPC6 or TRPC7 subunits. Multielectrode array (MEA) recordings performed at P6-P8 stages under conditions that prevent influences from rod/cone photoreceptors show comparable light sensitivity for the melanopsin-evoked responses in these mutant mouse lines in comparison to wild-type (WT) mice. Patch-clamp recordings from adult mouse ipRGCs lacking TRPC3 or TRPC7 subunits show intrinsic light-evoked responses equivalent to those recorded in WT mice. Persistence of intrinsic light-evoked responses was also noted in ipRGCs lacking TRPC6 subunits, although with significantly smaller magnitudes. These results demonstrate that the melanopsin-evoked depolarization in ipRGCs is not mediated by either TRPC3, TRPC6 or TRPC7 channel subunits alone. They also suggest that the melanopsin signaling pathway includes TRPC6-containing heteromeric channels in mature retinas.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) has a fundamental role in affective processing. In vivo studies have revealed rhythmic population activity of a similar type to that seen in the hippocampus and cortical areas during learning tasks. The amygdala contains densely interconnected networks of inhibitory interneurons similar to those responsible for fast network activity generation in the hippocampus and other cortical structures. Here we report that neuronal networks of the BLA in isolation generate persistent, gamma frequency (30-80 Hz) oscillations upon kainate receptor activation with kainic acid. We show that, like other cortical structures, BLA oscillations are completely dependent upon -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inhibition. GABA(A) receptor blockade abolished all oscillations, and the activity was also sensitive to the barbiturate, pentobarbital. Blockade of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors had no significant effect on gamma activity. However, the GluR5-containing kainate receptor-specific antagonist (S)-1-(2-amino-2-carboxyethyl)-3-(2-carboxybenzyl) pyrimidine-2,4-dione (UBP302) abolished oscillations-evidence that glutamatergic receptor involvement is predominantly kainate receptor mediated. The mixed AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo[f]quinoxalone-2,3-dione disodium (NBQX) abolished all oscillatory activity in 8/14 of slices tested. In the remaining slices, gamma frequency activity was abolished to reveal a low-amplitude, NMDA receptor-dependent, beta frequency (10-20 Hz) oscillation. Gamma oscillations are abolished by gap junction blockade. While these data show the BLA capable of generating gamma rhythms in common with other cortical areas studied to date, the network mechanisms appear to be different, suggesting a unique network structure underlies amygdala rhythmogenesis. Understanding how BLA networks produce synchronous activity is paramount to understanding how the BLA executes influence on important cognitive processes such as emotional learning.
Surround suppression is a phenomenon whereby stimulation of the extraclassical receptive field suppressively modulates the visual responses of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) (also known as area 17). It is known that surround suppression tunes to spatial frequencies (SFs) that are much lower and broader than the frequencies to which the classical receptive field tunes. In this study, we tested the effects of varying SFs on surround suppression by using a circular sinusoidal grating patch that covered both the classical receptive field and the extraclassical receptive field. Using area-summation tuning curves, we found high-SF-tuned surround suppression in the cat V1. This high-SF-tuned surround suppression causes the SF tuning to shift to low SF for large stimuli. By simulating a model neuron lacking a suppressive surround mechanism, we confirmed that these preferred SF shifts do not occur in the absence of surround suppression. We surmise that the high-SF-tuned suppression, which shifts the preferred SF according to size, functionally contributes to the scale-invariant processing of visual images in V1.
We report the case of a 5-year old girl with autosomal dominant acute necrotising encephalopathy (ADANE), who presented with encephalopathy, seizures and coma following a short febrile illness. MR imaging demonstrated characteristic symmetrical, T2 hyper-intense changes involving the external capsule, thalami, brainstem and cerebellum. Unique to this case was co-existing previously unrecognized homocysteinuria due to cystathionine--synthase (CBS) deficiency. We discuss metabolic hypotheses of the pathophysiology of ADANE and suggest that the concurrent homocysteinuria may have contributed to the severe phenotype seen in this child, who has been left with profound neurological deficits.
Since H(2)S has an emerging role as a cardioprotector, we hypothesized that NaHS addition to the new cardioplegic histidine buffer solution (HBS) could improve its cardioprotective potential. Male Wistar-Han rat hearts were divided in 4 groups: i) control, ii) perfusion control (perfusion only), iii) 6h ischemia in HBS or in a modified-HBS with 100 M of NaHS, a H(2)S donor, (HBSM) and iv) as iii followed by 30 min reperfusion. During ischemia, aliquots of the cardioplegic solution were collected for NMR analysis. Heart mitochondria respiration and transmembrane potential were measured after ischemia or after ischemia followed by reperfusion. Proteins involved in the apoptotic signaling pathway were also quantified in both mitochondrial and tissue samples. Cardiac mechanic performance was evaluated by measuring the heart rate and the left ventricular pressure. In HBSM-preserved hearts, a) glucose consumption increased as well as lactate and alanine production during ischemia, b) heart mitochondria presented an improved phosphorylative efficiency, including decreased phosphorylative lag phase for complex I and complex II substrates, c) mitochondrial and tissue p53, Bax and caspase-9 were lower and d) there was a more positive atrial chronotropic response than in HBS-preserved hearts. We concluded that the addition of NaHS to HBS enhances glycolysis during ischemia, decreases mitochondrial dysfunction, especially by preserving the phosphorylative system, prevents apoptosis and during ischemia/reperfusion.
Hyperactivity in anorexia nervosa (AN) is associated with low plasma leptin levels and negatively impacts on disease outcome. Using an animal model that mimics features of AN including food-restriction induced hyperlocomotion, we demonstrate that central leptin injections in the lateral ventricle and local injections of leptin into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) suppress running wheel activity. The results support that falling levels of leptin, that accompany caloric restriction, result in increased activity levels because of decreased leptin signaling in the VTA, part of the mesolimbic reward system.
Different pharmacologic agents have been evaluated in the treatment of Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS), albeit with moderate efficacy. Among the compounds thought to present with potential to be efficacious in CFS patients stands out low-dose amisulpride, a substituted benzamide that has been shown to be an useful treatment for conditions which exhibit some overlap with CFS such as dysthymia and somatoform disorders. We thus recruited forty non-depressed CFS patients that were randomized to receive either amisulpride 25mg bid, or fluoxetine 20mg uid; all subjects were un-blinded to the treatment regimen. At the time of enrollment in the study and after twelve weeks of treatment, enrolled subjects completed the Krupp Fatigue Severity Scale, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and a visual analog scale focused on pain and bodily discomfort. Moreover, all subjects were evaluated by a clinician, blinded to the treatment regimen, using the Clinical Global Impression Severity Scale. Our data revealed a significant improvement both in self-report, and observer-based measures for the amisulpride-treated, but not for the fluoxetine-treated patients. Amisulpride-treated subjects also presented with a significant reduction of somatic complaints, while the amisulpride effect on anxiety and mood levels was not significant. Both drugs were equally well tolerated. Summing up, we showed a positive symptomatic effect of amisulpride, compared to SSRI treatment, in a group of non-depressed CSF patients on self-report and on observer-based measures of fatigue and somatic complaints. If confirmed by larger, blinded studies, amisulpride thus could represent an effective approach to this difficult-to-treat condition.
A well established theory proposes that glutamate signalling via the NMDA receptor is compromised in patients with schizophrenia. Deficits related to NMDA receptor signalling can be observed in several brain regions including the prefrontal cortex (PFC), an area extensively linked to the cognitive dysfunction in this disease and notably affected by NMDA receptor antagonists such as phencyclidine (PCP). In addition, a number of studies suggest that normalizing of PFC function could constitute a treatment rationale for schizophrenia. To further study the role of PFC function we investigated the effect of local PFC NMDA receptor blockade on impaired prepulse inhibition (PPI) induced by systemic administration of PCP. Mice received prefrontal injections of PCP (0.01, 0.1 or 1mM) before PCP treatment (5mg/kg) and were thereafter tested for PPI. PCP induced deficits in PPI were ameliorated by prefrontal PCP (0.1mM) treatment whereas PPI was not affected by prefrontal cortex PCP administration per se at any of the doses tested. Taken together, inhibition of NMDA receptors in the PFC does not seem to be enough to impair PPI per se but NMDA receptor mediated signalling in the PFC may be a key factor for the PPI-disruptive effects of global NMDA receptor inhibition. This indicates that targeting PFC NMDA receptor signalling may have potential as a treatment target for schizophrenia although further studies are needed to understand pharmacology and pathophysiological role of PFC NMDA receptors.
Neurocognitive impairment is a core feature of schizophrenia and is closely associated with functional outcome. The importance of cognitive assessment is broadly accepted today, and an easy-to-use, internationality validated cognitive assessment tool is needed by researchers and in daily clinical practice. The Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia (BACS) has been validated in English, French, Japanese and Italian. It is as sensitive to cognitive dysfunction as a standard test battery, with the advantage of requiring less than 35minutes to complete. In our study, we tested the psychometric characteristics of a Spanish version of the BACS in 117 patients with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders and 36 healthy controls. All BACS cognitive subtests discriminated between patients and controls (P&lt;.001), and the concurrent validity between the BACS and a traditional neuropsychological test battery was similar to that reported in other languages. We conclude that the BACS can facilitate the comparison of the cognitive performance of patients with schizophrenia in many different countries.
Today, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most important age-related neurodegenerative diseases, but its etiology remains still unknown. Since the discovery that the hallmark structures of this disease i.e. the formation of amyloid fibers could be the product of ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation defects, it has become clear that the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), usually essential for protein repair, turnover and degradation, is perturbed in this disease. Different aspects of normal and pathological aging are discussed with respect to protein repair and degradation via the UPS, as well as consequences of a deficit in the UPS in AD. Selective protein oxidation may cause protein damage, or protein mutations may induce a dysfunction of the proteasome. Such events eventually lead to activation of cell death pathways and to an aberrant aggregation or incorporation of ubiquitinated proteins into hallmark structures. Aggresome formation is also observed in other neurodegenerative diseases, suggesting that an activation of similar mechanisms must occur in neurodegeneration as a basic phenomenon. It is essential to discuss therapeutic ways to investigate the UPS dysfunction in the human brain and to identify specific targets to hold or stop cell decay.
It has been argued that both modality-specific and supramodal mechanisms dedicated to time perception underlie the estimation of interval durations. While it is generally assumed that early sensory areas are dedicated to modality-specific time estimation, we hypothesized that early sensory areas such as the primary visual cortex or the auditory cortex might be involved in time perception independently of the sensory modality of the input. To test this possibility, we examined whether disruption of the primary visual cortex or the auditory cortex would disrupt time estimation of auditory stimuli and visual stimuli using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). We found that disruption of the auditory cortex impaired not only time estimation of auditory stimuli but also impaired that of visual stimuli to the same degree. This finding suggests a supramodal role of the auditory cortex in time perception. On the other hand, TMS over the primary visual cortex impaired performance only in visual time discrimination. These asymmetric contributions of the auditory and visual cortices in time perception may be explained by a superiority of the auditory cortex in temporal processing. Here, we propose that time is primarily encoded in the auditory system and that visual inputs are automatically encoded into an auditory representation in time discrimination tasks.
Humans learn and remember motor skills to permit adaptation to a changing environment. During adaptation, the brain develops new sensory-motor relationships that become stored in an internal model (IM) that may be retained for extended periods. How the brain learns new IMs and transforms them into long-term memory remains incompletely understood since prior work has mostly focused on the learning process. A current model suggests that basal ganglia, cerebellum, and their neocortical targets actively participate in forming new IMs but that a cerebellar cortical network would mediate automatization. However, a recent study (Marinelli et al. 2009) reported that patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), who have basal ganglia dysfunction, had similar adaptation rates as controls but demonstrated no savings at recall tests (24 and 48 h). Here, we assessed whether a longer training session, a feature known to increase long-term retention of IM in healthy individuals, could allow PD patients to demonstrate savings. We recruited PD patients and age-matched healthy adults and used a visual-motor adaptation paradigm similar to the study by Marinelli et al. (2009), doubling the number of training trials and assessed recall after a short and a 24-h delay. We hypothesized that a longer training session would allow PD patients to develop an enhanced representation of the IM as demonstrated by savings at the recall tests. Our results showed that PD patients had similar adaptation rates as controls but did not demonstrate savings at both recall tests. We interpret these results as evidence that fronto-striatal networks have involvement in the early to late phase of motor memory formation, but not during initial learning.
Highly selective activation of the desired muscles for each movement and inhibition of adjacent muscles is attributed to surround inhibition (SI) which differentially modulates corticospinal excitability in active and surrounding muscles. Cerebellar brain inhibition (CBI) is another inhibitory neuronal network which is known to be active at rest and during tonic muscle contraction. The way in which CBI may be modulated at movement onset and its relationship with SI has not previously been investigated. We assessed motor evoked potential (MEP) size and CBI in first dorsal interosseus (FDI) and abductor digiti minimi (ADM) muscles at rest and during a simple motor task where FDI was an active muscle and ADM was not involved in the movement (surround muscle). At onset of movement, MEP size in ADM was significantly suppressed, confirming the existence of SI. In contrast, CBI in both muscles was found to be significantly decreased at the onset of the movement. This was confirmed even after adjustments for changes in MEP size occurring due to onset of muscle activity in FDI and the effects of SI in ADM. Our findings fail to functionally link SI with CBI, but they do indicate a non-topographically specific modulation of CBI in association with initiation of voluntary movement.
Although falling is a significant problem for older persons, little is understood about its underlying causes. Spatial cognition and balance maintenance rely on the efficient integration of information across the main senses. We investigated general multisensory efficiency in older persons with a history of falls compared to age- and sensory acuity-matched controls and younger adults using a sound-induced flash illusion. Older fallers were as susceptible to the illusion as age-matched, non-fallers or younger adults at a short delay of 70 ms between the auditory and visual stimuli. Both older adult groups were more susceptible to the illusion at longer SOAs than younger adults. However, with increasing delays between the visual and auditory stimuli, older fallers did not show a decline in the frequency at which the illusion was experienced even with delays of up to 270 ms. We argue that this relatively higher susceptibility to the illusion reflects inefficient audio-visual processing in the central nervous system and has important implications for the diagnosis and rehabilitation of falling in older persons.
The afferent volley generated during neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) can increase the excitability of human corticospinal (CS) pathways to muscles of the leg and hand. Over time, such increases can strengthen CS pathways damaged by injury or disease and result in enduring improvements in function. There is some evidence that NMES affects CS excitability differently for muscles of the leg and hand, although a direct comparison has not been conducted. Thus, the present experiments were designed to compare the strength and specificity of NMES-induced changes in CS excitability for muscles of the leg and hand. Two hypotheses were tested: (1) For muscles innervated by the stimulated nerve (target muscles), CS excitability will increase more for the hand than for the leg. (2) For muscles not innervated by the stimulated nerve (non-target muscles), CS excitability will increase for muscles of the leg but not muscles of the hand. NMES was delivered over the common peroneal (CP) nerve in the leg or the median nerve at the wrist using a 1-ms pulse width in a 20 s on, 20 s off cycle for 40 min. The intensity was set to evoke an M-wave that was ~15% of the maximal M-wave in the target muscle: tibialis anterior (TA) in the leg and abductor pollicis brevis (APB) in the hand. Ten motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from the target muscles and from 2 non-target muscles of each limb using transcranial magnetic stimulation delivered over the &quot;hotspot&quot; for each muscle before and after the NMES. MEP amplitude increased significantly for TA (by 45  6%) and for APB (56  8%), but the amplitude of these increases was not different. In non-target muscles, MEPs increased significantly for muscles of the leg (42  4%), but not the hand. Although NMES increased CS excitability for target muscles to the same extent in the leg and hand, the differences in the effect on non-target muscles suggest that NMES has a &quot;global&quot; effect on CS excitability for the leg and a &quot;focused&quot; effect for the hand. These differences may reflect differences in the specificity of afferent projections to the cortex. Global increases in CS excitability for the leg could be advantageous for rehabilitation as NMES applied to one muscle could strengthen CS pathways and enhance function for multiple muscles.
Recent research shows that visual processing influences the speed/accuracy trade-off people use when performing goal-directed movement. This raises the question of how this influence is produced in visual cognition. Visual influences on speed/accuracy trade-off could be produced in conscious visual perception, in non-conscious visuomotor transformation, or by some interaction of conscious perceptual and non-conscious visuomotor processes. There is independent evidence showing that both perceptual and visuomotor processes are involved in trading off speed and accuracy; however, the interaction between these processes has yet to be investigated. We present an experiment in which we show that a change in visual consciousness induced by a perceptual illusion affects the speed and accuracy of goal-directed movements, suggesting that perceptual and visuomotor processes do interact in speed/accuracy trade-off. We discuss the consequences of these results for theories of visual function more generally.
When two motor cortical stimuli are delivered with an interstimulus interval of 50-200ms, the response (motor evoked potential; MEP) to the second stimulus is typically suppressed. This phenomenon is termed long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI), although data from one subject suggest that facilitation is possible. Moreover, we recently showed that suppression can be mediated at a spinal level. We characterized LICI more fully by exploring a broad range of contraction strengths and test stimulus intensities. MEPs were evoked in first dorsal interosseous by transcranial magnetic stimulation over the motor cortex. Single test and paired (conditioning-test interval of 100ms) stimuli at intensities of 100-160% resting motor threshold were delivered at rest or during brief contractions of 10, 25, or 100% maximal voluntary force. Inhibition or facilitation was quantified with the standard ratio in which conditioned MEPs were expressed as a percentage of unconditioned MEPs. Inhibition was greatest at weak-moderate contraction strengths and least at rest and during maximal efforts. Both at rest and during maximal efforts, MEPs evoked by strong stimuli were facilitated. In a subset of subjects, cervicomedullary stimulation was used to activate the corticospinal tract to identify possible spinal influences on changes to MEPs. Contraction strength and test stimulus intensity each had different effects on unconditioned and conditioned MEP size, and hence, LICI is highly dependent on both factors. Further, because motoneurons are facilitated during contraction but disfacilitated after a strong conditioning stimulus, the standard ratio of LICI is of questionable validity during voluntary contractions.
A slow oscillatory eye movement was discovered in a 20-min-long recording. The frequency of this slow oscillation was lower than any known eye movement. Fixational eye movements were recorded in seven healthy subjects with four different recording techniques and with different sampling frequencies. The frequency of the oscillation is 0.04-0.10Hz, and the amplitude is less than 0.2. Right and left eyes oscillate conjugately in the vertical direction implying a neural control. We suggest the oscillation to be a fourth movement in the fixational eye movement system. The influence of the oscillation on visual function is not known nor the underlying mechanism controlling the eye movement.
Light touch of a fingertip on an external stable surface greatly improves the postural stability of standing subjects. The hypothesis of the present work was that a vibrating surface could increase the effectiveness of fingertip signaling to the central nervous system (e.g., by a stochastic resonance mechanism) and hence improve postural stability beyond that achieved by light touch. Subjects stood quietly over a force plate while touching with their right index fingertip a surface that could be either quiescent or randomly vibrated at two low-level noise intensities. The vibratory noise of the contact surface caused a significant decrease in postural sway, as assessed by center of pressure measures in both time and frequency domains. Complementary experiments were designed to test whether postural control improvements were associated with a stochastic resonance mechanism or whether attentional mechanisms could be contributing. A full curve relating body sway parameters and different levels of vibratory noise resulted in a U-like function, suggesting that the improvement in sway relied on a stochastic resonance mechanism. Additionally, no decrease in postural sway was observed when the vibrating contact surface was attached to the subject's body, suggesting that no attentional mechanisms were involved. These results indicate that sensory cues obtained from the fingertip need not necessarily be associated with static contact surfaces to cause improvement in postural stability. A low-level noisy vibration applied to the contact surface could lead to a better performance of the postural control system.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can induce masking by interfering with ongoing neural activity in early visual cortex. Previous work has explored the chronometry of occipital involvement in vision by using single pulses of TMS with high temporal resolution. However, conventionally TMS intensities have been high and the only measure used to evaluate masking was objective in nature. Recent studies have begun to incorporate subjective measures of vision, alongside objective ones. The current study goes beyond previous work in two regards. First, we explored both objective vision (an orientation discrimination task) and subjective vision (a stimulus visibility rating on a four-point scale), across a wide range of time windows with high temporal resolution. Second, we used a very sensitive TMS-masking paradigm: stimulation was at relatively low TMS intensities, with a figure-8 coil, and the small stimulus was difficult to discriminate already at baseline level. We hypothesized that this should increase the effective temporal resolution of our paradigm. Perhaps for this reason, we are able to report a rather interesting masking curve. Within the classical-masking time window, previously reported to encompass broad SOAs anywhere between 60 and 120ms, we report not one, but at least two dips in objective performance, with no masking in-between. The subjective measure of vision did not mirror this pattern. These preliminary data from our exploratory design suggest that, with sensitive TMS masking, we might be able to reveal visual processes in early visual cortex previously unreported.
As a consequence of the Earth's rotation, almost all organisms experience day and night cycles within a 24-hr period. To adapt and synchronize biological rhythms to external daily cycles, organisms have evolved an internal time-keeping system. In mammals, the master circadian pacemaker residing in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the anterior hypothalamus generates circadian rhythmicity and orchestrates numerous subsidiary local clocks in other regions of the brain and peripheral tissues. Regardless of their locations, these circadian clocks are cell-autonomous and self-sustainable, implicating rhythmic oscillations in a variety of biochemical and metabolic processes. A group of core clock genes provides interlocking molecular feedback loops that drive the circadian rhythm even at the single-cell level. In addition to the core transcription/translation feedback loops, post-translational modifications also contribute to the fine regulation of molecular circadian clocks. In this article, we briefly review the molecular mechanisms and post-translational modifications of mammalian circadian clock regulation. We also discuss the organization of and communication between central and peripheral circadian oscillators of the mammalian circadian clock.
Several reports have demonstrated that attenuation of microglial activation by minocycline, an antimicrobial drug with anti-inflammatory properties, delays disease progression in a mouse model of ALS. However, the negative results obtained in recent clinical trials raised some questions regarding the role of inflammatory response and glial cells as a therapeutic target in ALS. To investigate this controversy we took advantage of a mouse model for live imaging of neuroinflammatory responses in ALS (GFAP-luc/ SOD1(G93A) reporter mouse) and analyzed in real time the effects of minocycline treatment initiated at different stages of the disease. To our surprise, unlike neuroprotection that is conferred when minocycline is administered pre-symptomatically, treatment with minocycline initiated after the disease onset significantly altered glial responses and exaggerated neuroinflammation. Further analysis revealed that the late minocycline treatment was associated with significant induction of the end-stage GFAP-biophotonic signals, expression levels of connexin 43, a major protein of astrocytic gap junction and markers of microglial activation, such as Iba1 and CD68. The results of our study suggest that when administered at later stages of disease, once microglial cells are chronically reactive, minocycline may not have anti-inflammatory properties, and contrary to expectations, may alter astrocyte reactivity and increase microgliosis. Finally, our results further suggest the existence of close interactions/communication between activated microglia and astrocytes in late stage ALS.
Adrenaline activates transient Cl(-) secretion and sustained K(+) secretion across isolated distal colonic mucosa of guinea-pigs. The Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channel inhibitor CaCCinh-A01 (30 m) significantly reduced electrogenic K(+) secretion, detected as short-circuit current (I(sc)). This inhibition supported the cell model for K(+) secretion in which basolateral membrane Cl(-) channels provide an exit pathway for Cl(-) entering the cell via Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporters. CaCCinh-A01 inhibited both I(sc) and transepithelial conductance in a concentration-dependent manner (IC(50) = 6.3 m). Another Cl(-) channel inhibitor, GlyH-101, also reduced sustained adrenaline-activated I(sc) (IC(50) = 9.4 m). Adrenaline activated whole-cell Cl(-) current in isolated intact colonic crypts, confirmed by ion substitution. This adrenaline-activated whole-cell Cl(-) current was also inhibited by CaCCinh-A01 or GlyH-101. In contrast to K(+) secretion, CaCCinh-A01 augmented the electrogenic Cl(-) secretion activated by adrenaline as well as that activated by prostaglandin E(2). Synergistic Cl(-) secretion activated by cholinergic/prostaglandin E(2) stimulation was insensitive to CaCCinh-A01. Colonic expression of the Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channel protein Tmem16A was supported by RT-PCR detection of Tmem16A mRNA, by immunoblot with a Tmem16A antibody, and by detection of immunofluorescence in lateral membranes of epithelial cells. Alternative splices of Tmem16A were detected for exons that are involved in channel activation. Inhibition of K(+) secretion and augmentation of Cl(-) secretion by CaCCinh-A01 support a common colonic cell model for these two ion secretory processes, such that activation of basolateral membrane Cl(-) channels contributes to the production of electrogenic K(+) secretion and limits the rate of Cl(-) secretion. Maximal physiological Cl(-) secretion occurs only for synergistic activation mechanisms that close these basolateral membrane Cl(-) channels.



Cognitive impairment constitutes a relevant clinical aspect of multiple sclerosis (MS). Depending on the disease phase and type, 40-65% of MS patients develop various degrees of cognitive dysfunction. Pathological and MRI studies have failed to demonstrate the existence of a strict relationship between cognitive impairment and subcortical white matter pathology. The correlation is also poor when MRI metrics of whole brain (white plus gray matter) atrophy are considered. Over the last decade, increasing observations have provided evidence of a primary role of cortical pathology - that is, inflammatory focal lesions (cortical lesions) and atrophy (cortical thickness) - in determining global and/or selective cognitive disability in MS. By applying a new semi-automated software (Freesurfer) to analyze the global and regional cortical thickness and the double inversion recovery sequence to identify cortical lesions, it has been observed that specific cognitive deficits, such as memory impairment, attention deficits and reduced mental processing speed, could be better explained by cortical structural abnormalities rather than subcortical white matter lesions. Therefore, MRI evaluation of cortical pathology should be included in the routine examination of MS patients, especially those with initial signs/symptoms of cognitive dysfunctions.
Evaluation of: Ruts L, Drenthen J, Jongen JL et al. Pain in Guillain-Barr syndrome: a long-term follow-up study. Neurology 75, 1439-1447 (2010). Pain has been recognized as an important symptom of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). The article under review prospectively studied the phenomenon of pain in a cohort of 156 GBS patients for a period of 1 year. It confirmed that pain of significant intensity is relatively common in all subtypes of GBS. It may start before the onset of other symptoms. It correlates with sensory loss, severity of the GBS at its nadir and the presence of diarrhea. In the recovery/chronic stages it correlates with weakness, disability and fatigue. Up to a third of patients have pain at 1 year.
Neurons incorporated into the adult main olfactory bulb (MOB) and accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) derive from the subventricular zone (SVZ). Despite some recent studies on the role of olfactory neurogenesis in sociosexual behaviors mediated by hormones, data on the implication of estrogens are still lacking. Taking advantage of female aromatase-knockout (ArKO) mice, which are unable to produce estradiol across their life span, we investigated the role of estradiol exposure during early postnatal and adult periods on adult neurogenesis in the MOB and AOB. We found that proliferation of progenitor cells in the adult female SVZ was not influenced by estradiol. However, whereas adult exposure to estradiol influences the turnover of MOB newborn neurons, the survival of those in the AOB depends on exposure to estradiol during the early postnatal period. Finally, based on their expression of Zif268, we showed that newborn neurons in the MOB responded to sociosexual odors, albeit to a lesser extent in ArKO females, suggesting a contribution of estradiol during the early postnatal period to this response. Together, these results suggest that the survival and functional integration of newborn neurons in the adult female MOB and AOB are differentially influenced by estrogens from the early postnatal period to adulthood.
Ethanol alters neural activity through interaction with multiple neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. The endogenous opioid system seems to play a key role, since the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (ReVia) attenuates craving for alcohol. We recently reported that ethanol and acetaldehyde, the first product of ethanol metabolism, affect transcription of opioid system genes in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. In the current study, potential epigenetic mechanisms were investigated to clarify these effects on prodynorphin gene expression. DNA methylation was analyzed by bisulfite pyrosequencing, and chromatin immunoprecipitation was used to assess putative specific histone modifications at the prodynorphin gene promoter. The results demonstrated a temporal relationship between selective chromatin modifications induced by ethanol and acetaldehyde and changes in prodynorphin gene expression quantitated by real-time qPCR. DNA methylation was not altered in any of the experimental conditions used. The epigenetic changes may precede gene transcription, and histone modifications might keep the prodynorphin gene in a poised state for later reactivation. A link has been observed between gene expression alterations and selective epigenetic modulation in the prodynorphin promoter region, demonstrating a specificity of the changes induced by ethanol and acetaldehyde. The latter may be mediating ethanol effects at the genomic level.
Neuroinflammation and the activation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) have been proposed to play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease (PD). In this study we investigated the effects of the selective iNOS inhibitor GW274150 in the 6-OHDA model of PD. 6-OHDA administration was associated with increased numbers of cells expressing iNOS. Administration of the iNOS inhibitor twice daily for 7 days, beginning 2 days after the 6-OHDA lesioning, led to a significant neuroprotection as shown by assessment of the integrity of the nigrostriatal system by tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry and HPLC assessment of striatal dopamine content. However, GW274150 displayed a bell-shaped neuroprotective profile, being ineffective at high doses. 6-OHDA lesioning was associated with an increase in microglial activation as assessed by the MHC II antigen OX-6 and the number of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9)-immunopositive cells. NO is a known modulator of MMP-9, and iNOS inhibition was associated with decreased numbers of MMP-9-immunopositive cells, culminating in a reduction in the numbers of reactive microglia. Withdrawal of GW274150 for a further 7 days negated any neuroprotective effects of iNOS inhibition, suggesting that the damaging effects of inflammation last beyond 7 days in this model and the continued administration of the drug may be required.
Glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL) catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the de novo synthesis of glutathione (GSH). The catalytic subunit (GCLC) of GCL contains a GAG trinucleotide-repeat (TNR) polymorphism within the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) that has been associated with various human disorders. Although several studies suggest that this variation influences GSH content, its implication for GCLC expression remains unknown. To better characterize its functional significance, we performed reporter gene assays with constructs containing the complete GCLC 5'-UTR upstream of a luciferase gene. Transfection of these vectors into various human cell lines did not reveal any significant differences between 7, 8, 9, or 10 GAG repeats, under either basal or oxidative stress conditions. To correlate these results with the previously described down-regulation induced by the C-129T GCLC promoter polymorphism, combinations of both variations were tested. Interestingly, the -129T allele down-regulates gene expression when combined with 7 GAG but not with 8, 9, or 10 GAG TNRs. This observation was confirmed in primary fibroblast cells, in which the combination of GAG TNR 7/7 and -129C/T genotypes decreased the GCLC protein level. These results provide evidence that interaction of the two variations can efficiently impair GCLC expression and thus suggest its involvement in the pathogenesis of diseases related to GSH metabolism.
Netrin-1 (NT-1) is one of the axon-guiding molecules that are critical for neuronal development. Because of its structural homology to the endothelial mitogens, NT-1 may have similar effects on vascular network formation. NT-1 was shown to be able to stimulate the proliferation and migration of human cerebral endothelial cells in vitro and also promote focal neovascularization in adult brain in vivo. In the present study, we reported the delivery of NT-1 using an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector (AAV-NT-1) into mouse brain followed by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO). We found that AAV vectors did not elicit a detectable inflammatory response, cell loss or neuronal damage after brain transduction. The level of NT-1 was increased in the AAV-NT-1-transduced tMCAO mice compared with the control mice. Furthermore, the neurobehavioral outcomes were significantly improved in AAV-NT-1-transduced mice compared with the control animals (P&lt;0.05) 7 days after tMCAO. Our data suggests that NT-1 plays a neuronal function recovery role in ischemic brain and that NT-1 gene transfer might present a valuable approach to treat brain ischemic disorders.
This study examined lower extremity biomechanics during the initiation of stair descent from an upright, static posture. Seventeen healthy subjects (aged 232.4 years) descended a five-step, steel-reinforced, wooden laboratory staircase (34 decline). Ten trials of stair descent were separated into two blocks of five trials. Beginning from an upright posture, subjects descended the staircase at their preferred velocity (0.530.082 m/s) and continued the length of the laboratory walkway (4 m). Joint mechanics were contrasted between gait cycles. Relative to the initiation cycle at the top of the staircase, the dissipative knee extensor (K3) and hip flexor (H2) moments and powers were independent of progression velocity and approximated steady-state (i.e., constant) values after the first cycle of the trail limb (Step 5 to Step 3). In contrast, a salient relationship was observed between progression velocity and ankle joint mechanics at initial-contact. The plantiflexor moment, power and work at initial-contact (A1) increased with centre of mass velocity. Our results demonstrate that while the knee extensor moment is the primary dissipater of mechanical energy in stair descent, the ankle plantiflexors are the primary dissipaters associated with increased progression velocity. In addition, the results show that steady-state stair descent may not be attained during the first gait cycle of the trail limb. These data shed light on locomotive strategies used in stair descent and can be applied in biomechanical models of human stair gait. Researchers and practitioners should take into consideration the influence of gait cycle and progression velocity when evaluating lower extremity function in stair descent.
Disruptions in the development of the neocortex are associated with cognitive deficits in humans and other mammals. Several genes contribute to neocortical development, and research into the behavioral phenotype associated with specific gene manipulations is advancing rapidly. Findings include evidence that variants in the human gene DYX1C1 may be associated with an increased risk of developmental dyslexia. Concurrent research has shown that the rat homolog for this gene modulates critical parameters of early cortical development, including neuronal migration. Moreover, recent studies have shown auditory processing and spatial learning deficits in rats following in utero transfection of an RNA interference (RNAi) vector of the rat homolog Dyx1c1 gene. The current study examined the effects of in utero RNAi of Dyx1c1 on working memory performance in Sprague-Dawley rats. This task was chosen based on the evidence of short-term memory deficits in dyslexic populations, as well as more recent evidence of an association between memory deficits and DYX1C1 anomalies in humans. Working memory performance was assessed using a novel match-to-place radial water maze task that allows the evaluation of memory for a single brief (4-10 seconds) swim to a new goal location each day. A 10-min retention interval was used, followed by a test trial. Histology revealed migrational abnormalities and laminar disruption in Dyx1c1 RNAi-treated rats. Dyx1c1 RNAi-treated rats exhibited a subtle, but significant and persistent impairment in working memory as compared to Shams. These results provide further support for the role of Dyx1c1 in neuronal migration and working memory.
Modulation of serotonin transporter (5-HTT) function causes changes in affective behavior, both in humans and rodents. Stressful life events likewise affect emotional behavior. In humans, a low-expressing genetic 5-htt variant, the s allele of the 5-htt linked promoter region, has been associated with increased risk for depression only where there was a history of stressful life events. To investigate this gene by environment interaction in mice, we compared the effects of inescapable shocks on the behavior of wild-type (5-htt+/+), heterozygote (5-htt+/-) and serotonin transporter deficient (5-htt-/-) mice. Inescapable shocks induce behavioral changes including a shock escape deficit, in a subsequent test when escape is possible. Confirming a gene by environment interaction, we found that stress increases escape latencies in a gene-dose dependent manner (5-htt-/-&gt;5-htt+/-&gt;5-htt +/+), where as there were no differences among the genotypes in the unstressed condition. The vulnerability to increased escape latency could not be accounted for by enhanced fear learning, as 5-htt-/- mice did not show heightened fear conditioning. The interaction of 5-htt genotype and stress appeared to produce a selective behavioral vulnerability, because no interaction of 5-htt genotype and stress was observed in other measures of anxiety and depression-linked behavior, including the open field, novelty suppressed feeding, and forced swim tests. We replicated prior findings that the 5-htt-/- displays heightened anxiety and depression-like behavior at baseline (unstressed condition). In conclusion, our data offer the possibility for future investigation of the neural basis underlying 5-htt genotype-by-stress interaction shown here.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is critical in synaptic plasticity and in the survival and function of midbrain dopamine neurons. In this study, we assessed the effects of a partial genetic deletion of BDNF on motor function and dopamine (DA) neurotransmitter measures by comparing Bdnf(+/-) with wildtype mice (WT) at different ages. Bdnf(+/-) and WT mice had similar body weights until 12 months of age; however, at 21 months, Bdnf(+/-) mice were significantly heavier than WT mice. Horizontal and vertical motor activity was reduced for Bdnf(+/-) compared to WT mice, but was not influenced by age. Performance on an accelerating rotarod declined with age for both genotypes and was exacerbated for Bdnf(+/-) mice. Body weight did not correlate with any of the three behavioral measures studied. Dopamine neurotransmitter markers indicated no genotypic difference in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase, DA transporter (DAT) or vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) immunoreactivity at any age. However, DA transport via DAT (starting at 12 months) and VMAT2 (starting at 3 months) as well as KCl-stimulated DA release were reduced in Bdnf(+/-) mice and declined with age suggesting an increasingly important role for BDNF in the release and uptake of DA with the aging process. These findings suggest that a BDNF expression deficit becomes more critical to dopaminergic dynamics and related behavioral activities with increasing age.
Ras-GRF1 (GRF1) and Ras-GRF2 (GRF2) constitute a family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs). The main isoforms, p140-GRF1 and p135-GRF2, have 2 GEF domains that give them the capacity to activate both Ras and Rac GTPases in response to signals from a variety of neurotransmitter receptors. GRF1 and GRF2 proteins are found predominantly in adult neurons of the central nervous system, although they can also be detected in a limited number of other tissues. p140-GRF1 and p135-GRF2 contain calcium/calmodulin-binding IQ domains that allow them to act as calcium sensors to mediate the actions of NMDA-type and calcium-permeable AMPA-type glutamate receptors. p140-GRF1 also mediates the action of dopamine receptors that signal through cAMP. Although p140-GRF1 and p135-GRF2 have similar functional domains, studies of GRF knockout mice show that they can play strikingly different roles in regulating MAP kinase family members, neuronal synaptic plasticity, specific forms of learning and memory, and behavioral responses to psychoactive drugs. In addition, the function of GRF proteins may vary in different regions of the brain. Alternative splice variants yielding smaller GRF1 gene isoforms with fewer functional domains also exist; however, their distinct roles in neurons have not been revealed. Continuing studies of these proteins should yield important insights into the biochemical basis of brain function as well as novel concepts to explain how complex signal transduction proteins, like Ras-GRFs, integrate multiple upstream signals into specific downstream outputs to control brain function.
The impact of connexin30 (Cx30) on interastrocytic gap junction coupling in the normal hippocampus is matter of debate; reporter gene analyses indicated a weak expression of Cx30 in the mouse hippocampus. In contrast, mice lacking connexin43 (Cx43) in astrocytes exhibited only 50% reduction in coupling. Complete uncoupling of hippocampal astrocytes in mice lacking both Cx30 and Cx43 suggested that Cx30 participates in interastrocytic gap junction coupling in the hippocampus. With comparative reporter gene assays, immunodetection, and cre/loxP-based reporter approaches we demonstrate that Cx30 is more abundant than previously thought. The specific role of Cx30 in interastrocytic coupling has never been investigated. Employing tracer coupling analyses in acute slices of Cx30 deficient mice here we show that Cx30 makes a substantial contribution to interastrocytic gap junctional communication in the mouse hippocampus.
The poor survival and migration of transplanted Schwann cells (SCs) are major drawbacks for their clinical application in cell therapy for neurotrauma. To overcome such drawbacks we genetically modified SCs to over-express polysialic acid (PSA) by lentiviral delivery of polysialyltransferase (PST) to study whether over-expression of PSA could enhance their survival, migration, and integration when transplanted into the spinal cord. It was found that more PSA-expressing SCs (PST/SCs) survived than GFP-expressing SCs (GFP/SCs) after transplantation, although cell loss was still quite significant. PSA expression did not enhance the motility of transplanted SCs in uninjured spinal cord. However, in a spinal cord crush injury model PST/SCs transplanted caudal to the lesion showed that increased number of PST/SCs migrated to the injury site compared with that of GFP/SCs. Induced expression of PSA in spinal cord can further facilitate the infiltration of PST/SCs into the lesion site. PST/SCs were also shown to intermingle well with host spinal cells while GFP/SCs formed boundaries with host tissue. This was confirmed by an in vitro confrontation assay showing that more PST/SCs crossed over to astrocyte territory than GFP/SCs. Furthermore, PST/SCs induced much less expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan in the surrounding tissues than GFP/SCs, indicating that expression of PSA on SCs do not cause significant stress response of astrocytes. These results demonstrate that expression of PSA on SCs significantly changes their biological properties and makes them more feasible for neural repair after neurotrauma.
Wallerian degeneration (WD) is an inflammatory process of nerve degeneration, which occurs more rapidly in the peripheral nervous system compared with the central nervous system, resulting, respectively in successful and aborted axon regeneration. In the peripheral nervous system, Schwann cells (SCs) and macrophages, under the control of a network of cytokines and chemokines, represent the main cell types involved in this process. Within this network, the role of placental growth factor (PlGF) remains totally unknown. However, properties like monocyte activation/attraction, ability to increase expression of pro-inflammatory molecules, as well as neuroprotective effects, make it a candidate likely implicated in this process. Also, nothing is described about the expression and localization of this molecule in the peripheral nervous system. To address these original questions, we decided to study PlGF expression under physiological and degenerative conditions and to explore its role in WD, using a model of sciatic nerve transection in wild-type and Pgf(-/-) mice. Our data show dynamic changes of PlGF expression, from periaxonal in normal nerve to SCs 24h postinjury, in parallel with a p65/NF-B recruitment on Pgf promoter. After injury, SC proliferation is reduced by 30% in absence of PlGF. Macrophage invasion is significantly delayed in Pgf(-/-) mice compared with wild-type mice, which results in worse functional recovery. MCP-1 and proMMP-9 exhibit a 3-fold reduction of their relative expressions in Pgf(-/-) injured nerves, as demonstrated by cytokine array. In conclusion, this work originally describes PlGF as a novel member of the cytokine network of WD.


There is a growing body of evidence supporting the efficacy of various complementary and alternative medicine approaches in the management of headache disorders. These treatment modalities include nutraceutical, physical and behavioral therapies. Nutraceutical options comprise vitamins and supplements (magnesium, riboflavin, coenzyme Q(10), and alpha lipoic acid) and herbal preparations (feverfew, and butterbur). Although controversial, there are some reports demonstrating the benefit of recreational drugs such as marijuana, lysergic acid diethylamide and psilocybin in headache treatment. Behavioral treatments generally refer to cognitive behavioral therapy and biobehavioral training (biofeedback, relaxation training). Physical treatments in headache management are not as well defined but usually include acupuncture, oxygen therapy, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, occlusal adjustment, cervical manipulation, physical therapy, massage, chiropractic therapy, and osteopathic manipulation. In this review, the available evidence for all these treatments will be discussed.
Active conductances located and operating on neuronal dendrites are expected to regulate synaptic integration and plasticity. We investigate how Kv4.2-mediated A-type K(+) channels and Ca(2+) -activated K(+) channels are involved in the induction process of Hebbian-type plasticity that requires correlated pre- and postsynaptic activities. In CA1 pyramidal neurons, robust long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by a theta burst pairing protocol usually occurred within a narrow window during which incoming synaptic potentials coincided with postsynaptic depolarization. Elimination of dendritic A-type K(+) currents in Kv4.2(-/-) mice, however, resulted in an expanded time window, making the induction of synaptic potentiation less dependent on the temporal relation of pre- and postsynaptic activity. For the other type of synaptic plasticity, long-term depression, the threshold was significantly increased in Kv4.2(-/-) mice. This shift in depression threshold was restored to normal when the appropriate amount of internal free calcium was chelated during induction. In concert with A-type channels, Ca(2+) -activated K(+) channels also exerted a sliding effect on synaptic plasticity. Blocking these channels in Kv4.2(-/-) mice resulted in an even larger potentiation while by contrast, the depression threshold was shifted further. In conclusion, dendritic A-type and Ca(2+) -activated K(+) channels dually regulate the timing-dependence and thresholds of synaptic plasticity in an additive way.
Mice born from high care-giving females show, as adults, low anxiety levels, decreased responsiveness to stress, and substantial improvements in cognitive function and hippocampal plasticity. Given the relevance of this issue for preventing emotional and cognitive abnormalities in high-risk subjects, this study examines the possibility to further enhance the beneficial effects observed in the progeny by augmenting maternal care beyond the highest levels females can display in standard laboratory conditions. This was produced by placing a second female with the dam and its litter in the rearing cage from the partum until pups weaning. Maternal behavior of all females was scored during the first week postpartum, and behavioral indices of emotionality, prestress and poststress corticosterone levels, cognitive performance, and hippocampal morphology were assessed in the adult offspring. We found that pups reared by female dyads received more maternal care than pups reared by dams alone, but as adults, they did not exhibit alterations in emotionality or corticosterone response estimated in basal condition or following restraint stress. Conversely, they showed enhanced performance in hippocampal-dependent tasks including long-term object discrimination, reactivity to spatial change, and fear conditioning together with an increase in dendritic length and spine density in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. In general, the beneficial effects of dyadic maternal care were stronger when both the females were lactating. This study demonstrates that double-mothering exerts a long-term positive control on cognitive function and hippocampal neuronal connectivity. This experimental manipulation, especially if associated with increased feeding, might offer a concrete possibility to limit or reverse the consequences of negative predisposing conditions for normal cognitive development.
Alterations in the central nervous system in patients with a loss of sense of smell are well documented for the olfactory bulb (OB). Here we present a voxel-based morphometry (VBM) study on cerebral alterations in the gray matter of patients with anosmia above the OB. 3-Tesla MRI datasets were obtained from 17 patients with anosmia as well as from 17 normosmic controls. Data processing and evaluation was performed using the SPM5 software package (Wellcome Department of Imaging Neuroscience Group, London, UK) and the implemented VBM5 toolbox. Patients with anosmia showed a significant volume decrease in the gray matter in the primary olfactory cortex as well as in secondary olfactory areas (insular cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, cingulate cortex and hippocampus). Furthermore, volume decreases in areas like the nucleus accumbens with adjacent subcallosal gyrus and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were found. Longer disease duration was associated with more profound alterations in the gray matter. VBM is appropriate to document brain alterations in patients with olfactory disorders.
The establishment of sex-specific neural morphology, which underlies sex-specific behaviors, occurs during a perinatal sensitive window in which brief exposure to gonadal steroid hormones produces permanent masculinization of the brain. In the rodent, estradiol derived from testicular androgens is a principal organizational hormone. The mechanism by which transient estradiol exposure induces permanent differences in neuronal anatomy has been widely investigated, but remains elusive. Epigenetic changes, such as DNA methylation, allow environmental influences to alter long-term gene expression patterns and therefore may be a potential mediator of estradiol-induced organization of the neonatal brain. Here we review data that demonstrate sex and estradiol-induced differences in DNA methylation on the estrogen receptor  (ER), estrogen receptor  (ER), and progesterone receptor (PR) promoters in sexually dimorphic brain regions across development. Contrary to the overarching view of DNA methylation as a permanent modification directly tied to gene expression, these data demonstrate that methylation patterns on steroid hormone receptors change across the life span and do not necessarily predict expression. Although further exploration into the mechanism and significance of estradiol-induced alterations in DNA methylation patterns in the neonatal brain is necessary, these results provide preliminary evidence that epigenetic alterations can occur in response to early hormone exposure and may mediate estradiol-induced organization of sex differences in the neonatal brain.
The study of epigenetic mechanisms is important for elucidating how gene-by-environment interactions can have lasting outcomes on brain function and behavior. In general, studies of epigenetic processes mainly focus on the methylation status of DNA. While methylation of DNA alone can interfere with gene transcription, it is the binding of methyl-CpG binding proteins to methylated DNA, and subsequent recruitment of nuclear corepressors and histone deacetylases, that results in more efficient gene repression. In this review, we will discuss sex differences in DNA methylation patterns, methyl binding proteins, and corepressor proteins that contribute to lasting differences in brain and juvenile behavior. Specifically, we will discuss new data on sex differences in ER DNA promoter methylation patterns, and the role of MeCP2 and the nuclear corepressor, NCoR, on the organization of juvenile social play behavior.
Epigenetics, the nongenetic component of how chromatin structure influences gene expression, is amazingly complex, and linking how environmental stimuli can influence epigenetic 'gene programs' in specific nerve cells to ultimately control behavior is a seemingly insurmountable puzzle. Cocaine is a highly potent stimulus capable of influencing behavior for the lifetime of an organism. Not surprisingly, psychostimulant-induced epigenetic regulation of gene expression has thus been identified as key to understanding the pathology of addiction. In addition to identifying this essential role of epigenetics in addiction, several important concepts have emerged such as the importance of global, temporal, and spatial control of mRNA expression in considering any given histone modification's influence on a given gene. Adding to this complexity, one has to account for the cumulative influence of other epigenetic modifications on a gene's transcription in addition to the interplay between transcription factors and chromatin structure. This review highlights how bioinformatic, molecular, and behavioral studies on addiction provide new insight into these concepts and outlines two distinct psychostimulant-induced patterns of chromatin regulation which are thought to underlie unique programs of gene expression that contribute importantly to the addicted state.
This article reports an interesting link between the psychophysical property of intentional control of perceptual switching and the underlying neural activities. First, we revealed that the timing of perceptual switching for a dynamical dot quartet can be controlled by the observers' intention, without eye movement. However, there is a clear limitation to this control, such that each animation frame of the stimulus must be presented for a sufficiently long time length; in other words, the frequency of the stimulus alternation must be sufficiently slow for the control. The typical stimulus onset asynchrony for a 50% level of success was about 275 ms for an average of 10 observers. On the basis of psychophysical property, we designed three experiments for investigating the neural process with a magnetoencephalography. They revealed that: (1) a peak component occurring about 300 ms after a reversal was stronger when the direction of perceived motion was switched intentionally than when it was not switched, and (2) neural components about 30-40 ms and 240-250 ms after the reversal of the stimulus animation were stronger when perception was altered intentionally than when it was switched unintentionally. The 300 ms component is consistent with a previous study about passive perceptual switching (Struber and Herrmann [ 2002]: Cogn Brain Res 14:370-382), but the intentional effect was seemed to be a different component from the well-known P300 component.
The 12 genome-wide association studies (GWAS) published to-date for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) have identified over 40 candidate LOAD risk modifiers, in addition to apolipoprotein (APOE) 4. A few of these novel LOAD candidate genes, namely BIN1, CLU, CR1, EXOC3L2 and PICALM, have shown consistent replication, and are thus credible LOAD susceptibility genes. To evaluate other promising LOAD candidate genes, we have added data from our large, case-control series (n=5,043) to meta-analyses of all published follow-up case-control association studies for six LOAD candidate genes that have shown significant association across multiple studies (TNK1, GAB2, LOC651924, GWA_14q32.13, PGBD1 and GALP) and for an additional nine previously suggested candidate genes. Meta-analyses remained significant at three loci after addition of our data: GAB2 (OR=0.78, p=0.007), LOC651924 (OR=0.91, p=0.01) and TNK1 (OR=0.92, p=0.02). Breslow-Day tests revealed significant heterogeneity between studies for GAB2 (p&lt;0.0001) and GWA_14q32.13 (p=0.006). We have also provided suggestive evidence that PGBD1 (p=0.04) and EBF3 (p=0.03) are associated with age-at-onset of LOAD. Finally, we tested for interactions between these 15 genes, APOE 4 and the five novel LOAD genes BIN1, CLU, CR1, EXOC3L2 and PICALM but none were significant after correction for multiple testing. Overall, this large, independent follow-up study for 15 of the top LOAD candidate genes provides support for GAB2 and LOC651924 (6q24.1) as risk modifiers of LOAD and novel associations between PGBD1 and EBF3 with age-at-onset.
Mutations in PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) cause early onset autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease (PD). PINK1 is a 63 kDa protein kinase, which exerts a neuroprotective function and is known to localize to mitochondria. Upon entry into the organelle, PINK1 is cleaved to produce a 53 kDa protein (N-PINK1). In this paper, we show that PINK1 is cleaved between amino acids Ala-103 and Phe-104 to generate N-PINK1. We demonstrate that a reduced ability to cleave PINK1, and the consequent accumulation of full-length protein, results in mitochondrial abnormalities reminiscent of those observed in PINK1 knockout cells, including disruption of the mitochondrial network and a reduction in mitochondrial mass. Notably, we assessed three N-terminal PD-associated PINK1 mutations located close to the cleavage site and, while these do not prevent PINK1 cleavage, they alter the ratio of full-length to N-PINK1 protein in cells, resulting in an altered mitochondrial phenotype. Finally, we show that PINK1 interacts with the mitochondrial protease presenilin-associated rhomboid-like protein (PARL) and that loss of PARL results in aberrant PINK1 cleavage in mammalian cells. These combined results suggest that PINK1 cleavage is important for basal mitochondrial health and that PARL cleaves PINK1 to produce the N-PINK1 fragment.
Detection of white matter changes of the brain using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has increasingly been an active and challenging research area in computational neuroscience. There have rarely been any single image analysis methods that can effectively address the issue of automated quantification of neuroimages, which are subject to different interests of various medical hypotheses. This paper presents new image segmentation models for automated detection of white matter changes of the brain in an elderly population. The methods are based on the computational models of fuzzy clustering, possibilistic clustering, geostatistics, and knowledge combination. Experimental results on MRI data have shown that the proposed image analysis methodology can be applied as a very useful computerized tool for the validation of our particular medical question, where white matter changes of the brain are thought to be the most important social medical evidence.
For iterative, fully 3D positron emission tomography (PET) image reconstruction intrinsic symmetries can be used to significantly reduce the size of the system matrix. The precalculation and beneficial memory-resident storage of all nonzero system matrix elements is possible where sufficient compression exists. Thus, reconstruction times can be minimized independently of the used projector and more elaborate weighting schemes, e.g., volume-of-intersection (VOI), are applicable. A novel organization of scanner-independent, adaptive 3D projection data is presented which can be advantageously combined with highly rotation-symmetric voxel assemblies. In this way, significant system matrix compression is achieved. Applications taking into account all physical lines-of-response (LORs) with individual VOI projectors are presented for the Siemens ECAT HR+ whole-body scanner and the Siemens BrainPET, the PET component of a novel hybrid-MR/PET imaging system. Measured and simulated data were reconstructed using the new method with ordered-subset-expectation-maximization (OSEM). Results are compared to those obtained by the sinogram-based OSEM reconstruction provided by the manufacturer. The higher computational effort due to the more accurate image space sampling provides significantly improved images in terms of resolution and noise.
We report on a patient who presented at our hospital with fever, headache, neck pain, partial nuchal rigidity and decreased vision of the left eye. The clinical history, biochemical and instrumental exams performed suggested meningitis but the final hypothesis achieved was an unusual case of Neuro-Behcet-Disease (NBD) without orogenital ulcerations at presentation and with normal MRI findings, whose course was complicated by fatal cerebral venous sinus thrombosis and intracranial haemorrhage. The post-mortem results confirmed the diagnosis. This is a rare case confirmed by anatomo-pathological findings where NBD can present itself as an acute meningeal syndrome that mimics central nervous system infections, making diagnosis difficult and delaying treatment.
Research interviews require a fact-based, neutral inquiry style that contrasts markedly from the empathic style of clinical interviews in psychiatric practice. In fact, the research interview generally seeks to gather information and specifically avoid any therapeutic benefit. This article describes the purpose of these opposing interview styles and provides some guidelines for beginning clinicians conducting research.

Trafficking of transcription factors between the cytoplasm and the nucleus is an essential aspect of signal transduction, which is particularly challenging in neurons due to their highly polarized structure. Disruption in the subcellular localization of many proteins, including transcription factors, is observed in affected neurons of human neurodegenerative diseases. In these diseases, there is also growing evidence supporting alterations in nuclear transport as potential mechanisms underlying the observed mislocalization of proteins. Oxidative stress, which plays a key pathogenic role in these diseases, has also been associated with significant alterations in nuclear transport. After providing an overview of the major nuclear import and export pathways and discussing the impact of oxidative injury on nuclear trafficking of proteins, this review synthesizes emerging evidence for altered nuclear transport as a possible mechanism in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Potential strategies to overcome such deficits are also discussed.


Various lines of (pre)clinical research indicate that cannabinoid agents carry the potential for therapeutic application to reduce symptoms in several psychiatric disorders. However, direct testing of the involvement of cannabinoid brain systems in psychiatric syndromes is essential for further development. In the Pharmacological Imaging of the Cannabinoid System (PhICS) study, the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in cognitive brain function is assessed by comparing acute effects of the cannabinoid agonist 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on brain function between healthy controls and groups of psychiatric patients showing cognitive dysfunction. This article describes the objectives and methods of the PhICS study and presents preliminary results of the administration procedure on subjective and neurophysiological parameters. Core elements in the methodology of PhICS are the administration method (THC is administered by inhalation using a vaporizing device) and a comprehensive use of pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) combining several types of MRI scans including functional MRI (fMRI), Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) to measure brain perfusion, and resting-state fMRI. Additional methods like neuropsychological testing further specify the exact role of the endocannabinoid system in regulating cognition. Preliminary results presented in this paper indicate robust behavioral and subjective effects of THC. In addition, fMRI paradigms demonstrate activation of expected networks of brain regions in the cognitive domains of interest. The presented administration and assessment protocol provides a basis for further research on the involvement of the endocannabionoid systems in behavior and in psychopathology, which in turn may lead to development of therapeutic opportunities of cannabinoid ligands.
Needle biopsy is widely used to obtain specimens for physiological, anatomical and biochemical studies of skeletal muscle (SM). We optimized a procedure which we termed tiny percutaneous needle biopsy (TPNB), to efficiently gather good numbers of human satellite cells and single dissociated fibers for the functional study of skeletal muscle; these samples permit isolation of high-quality RNA and sufficient amounts of proteins to allow molecular analysis. Moreover, TPNB showed a clear advantage in that the technique was easier than other procedures used on healthy volunteers in human trials. TPNB is a very safe minor surgical procedure. It is less traumatic than needle aspiration biopsy, and significant complications are improbable. TPNB should become established as an important tool in the investigation of SM and may be employed to study various physiological aspects of SM in human subjects. We suggest that TPNB should also be used in the study of muscle diseases and disorders including muscular dystrophy, congenital myopathy, and metabolic defects.

Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant brain tumor in childhood. The most prevalent chromosomal abnormalities are isochromosome 17q and loss of 17p, the location of the tumor suppressor gene p53. Mutations in the p53 gene in medulloblastoma are relatively infrequent but have recently been correlated to poor prognosis. Furthermore, the p53 gene encodes nine different isoforms, which may have a profound impact on p53 tumor suppressor activity. Nine medulloblastoma primary biopsy samples, six cell lines from medulloblastoma, and one from a supratentorial PNET, and a medulloblastoma xenograft, along with human brain and visceral tissues, were analyzed by Western blotting, using monoclonal p53 antibodies against two regions in the N-terminus or the central domain. Medulloblastoma primary tissue and xenografts present low molecular weight proteins recognized by both N-terminal p53 antibodies that are absent in all cell lines including the one used for xenografts. Normal visceral organs display short forms of p53, and low levels of canonical p53. Normal brain structures, including cerebellum, contained only canonical size p53 at high levels. In conclusion, our results indicate that the presence of p53 isoforms may play a functional role in medulloblastoma. The observed differences in their presence in cell lines and derived xenografts, suggest that p53 should be investigated in in vivo models rather than in cell lines.

The effect of stimulus valence and arousal on facial electromyographic (EMG) asymmetry was investigated to inform the debate about two contrasting hypotheses of emotion: the right hemisphere dominance hypothesis and the valence hypothesis. EMG was recorded from the left and right corrugator and zygomaticus muscles while participants (N = 21) viewed blocks of negative and positive pictures that were high or low in arousal. Ratings of valence and arousal were taken before and after each of the four emotion blocks. Corrugator muscle activity yielded evidence for left hemi-face dominance during high and low arousal negative picture blocks whereas zygomaticus muscle activity yielded evidence for right hemi-face dominance during high arousal positive picture blocks, especially early during the picture sequence. This pattern of results is consistent with the valence hypothesis.
Attentional bias towards emotional linguistic material has been examined extensively with the emotion-word Stroop task. Although findings in clinical groups show an interference effect of emotional words that relate to the specific concern of the group, findings concerning healthy groups are less clear. In the present study, we investigated whether emotional Stroop interference in healthy individuals is affected by exposure of the words prior to the task. We used event-related potentials (ERPs) to examine the temporal aspects of Stroop interference. Participants took longer to indicate the colour of negative than of neutral words. Exposure of words prior to the Stroop task increased response latencies, but this effect was equal for neutral and negative words. At the neurophysiological level, we found more positive-going ERPs at later latencies (P290, N400 and LPP) in response to negative than in response to neutral Stroop words. The N400 was less negative for exposed than for new words, but this effect did not interact with the emotional valence of the words. For new (i.e., unexposed) words, the behavioural Stroop interference correlated with the P290, N400 and LPP emotion effects (negative minus neutral words). The successive ERP components suggest better prelexical, semantic, and sustained attentional processing of emotion words, even when the emotional content of the words is task-irrelevant.
To evaluate balance in women with multiple sclerosis (MS) who have low disability and minimal clinical impairments as measured by the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), and compare them with healthy age-matched controls. Patients were aged between 18 and 64 years; 67 individuals with MS (=44.0  1.2 years) and 45 healthy controls (=40.4  2.4 years). All patients had an EDSS score of 3.5 or below. Both the groups underwent a series of balance measures using the NeuroCom Balance Master. The mean EDSS for the MS group was 1.8. For balance, there was a significant difference between the two groups, with the MS group performing worse on the modified clinical test for sensory integration of balance measures standing on a foam surface with eyes closed (P&lt;0.01). A significant difference was also found for the unilateral stance with eyes closed and eyes open, and the tandem walk, with the MS group showing significantly more sway during those tests (P&lt;0.01). The MS group did significantly worse when compared with the healthy age-matched controls on the balance measures, indicating greater postural instability despite the low disability measured by EDSS.
The objective of this study was to investigate the value of screening for cognitive functions at the start of an inpatient rehabilitation programme to predict the health status 1 and 3 years poststroke. In this longitudinal cohort study of stroke patients in inpatient rehabilitation data of 134 participants were analysed. Cognitive and clinical data were collected after admission to inpatient rehabilitation treatment. Data on health status were collected at 1 and 3 years post stroke. Cognitive functioning was assessed with the Cambridge Cognitive Examination (CAMCOG). Health status was assessed with the Stroke-Adapted Sickness Impact Profile. Statistical analyses included descriptive statistics, Pearson correlations and multiple regression analysis. One year poststroke, the CAMCOG dimensions of orientation (=-0.21), Perception (=-0.16) and Memory (=-0.16), as well as age and motor function were significant predictors of health status. Cognitive variables alone explained 2.5-10.3% of the variance. Three years poststroke, CAMCOG Perception (=-0.19 and -0.18) and Language (=-0.15), as well as age, type of stroke and motor function were significant predictors of health status, and the cognitive variables alone explained 1.7-10.9% of the variance. CAMCOG scores were significant predictors of long-term health status in patients with stroke, although the amount of explained variance was small.

This article develops an integrative theory of the mind by examining how the mind, understood as a set of skills and dispositions, depends upon four sources of mediators. Harr's hybrid psychology is taken as a meta-theoretical starting point, but is expanded significantly by including the four sources of mediators that are the brain, the body, social practices and technological artefacts. It is argued that the mind is normative in the sense that mental processes do not simply happen, but can be done more or less well, and thus are subject to normative appraisal. The expanded hybrid psychology is meant to assist in integrating theoretical perspectives and research interests that are often thought of as incompatible, among them neuroscience, phenomenology of the body, social practice theory and technology studies. A main point of the article is that these perspectives each are necessary for an integrative approach to the human mind.


An acoustic pointing task was used to measure extents of laterality produced by ongoing interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) conveyed by the envelopes of 4-kHz-centered raised-sine stimuli while varying, parametrically, their peakedness, depth of modulation, and frequency of modulation. One purpose of the study was to determine whether such manipulations would produce changes in laterality logically consistent with those found for ITD-discrimination thresholds reported by Bernstein and Trahiotis [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 125, 3234-3242 (2009)]. The data obtained revealed that they did in that (1) increasing depth of modulation, peakedness, or frequency of modulation between 32 and 128 Hz produced smaller threshold ITDs and greater laterality and (2) increasing frequency of modulation to 256 Hz produced modest increases in threshold ITDs and modest decreases in laterality. The extents of laterality measured were successfully accounted for via an augmentation of the cross-correlation-based &quot;position-variable&quot; modeling approach developed by Stern and Shear [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 100, 2278-2288 (1996)] to account for ITD-based extents of laterality obtained at low spectral frequencies.



Falls incidence in Chinese older people has been reported to be approximately half that of Caucasian populations. It is possible that the falls risk factor profile may differ significantly between Caucasian and Chinese populations, and a better understanding of this reported difference in incidence and associated risk factors may influence potential approaches to future intervention. A systematic literature review was conducted using the EMBase, Medline, Chinese Electronic Periodical Services, and WanFangdata databases to collate and evaluate the studies that have addressed the incidence and risk factors for falls in Chinese older people. Twenty-one studies conducted in China, Hong Kong, Macao, Singapore, and Taiwan met the inclusion criteria. Fall rates ranged between 14.7% and 34% per annum (median 18%). In the four prospective studies, injuries were reported by 60% to 75% of those reporting falls, with fractures constituting 6% to 8% of all injuries. One hundred thirty-two variables were identified as fall risk factors, with commonly reported factors being female sex, older age, use of multiple medications, gait instability, fear of falling, and decline in activities of daily living. The findings reveal a consistently lower incidence of self-reported falls in Chinese older people than in Caucasian older people, although the types and prevalence of risk factors were not dissimilar from those found in studies of Caucasian older people. A greater understanding of the health, behavioral, and lifestyle factors that influence fall rates in Chinese populations is required for elucidating fall prevention strategies in Chinese and non-Chinese older people.
Using the fractionator principle, the total number, density and diameter size of myelinated callosal fibers were estimated in the corpus callosum (CC) of 10 Danish males between 39 and 60years of age. All sampled brains had been used in previous quantitative studies, for example, studies of neocortical neuron number, and were selected to determine whether the variability in the neocortical neuron number correlated with the total number of myelinated callosal fibers. Middle-aged males had an average of 13810(6) (coefficient of variance; CV=0.19) myelinated fibers, but did not show any correlation with the neocortical neuron number (r=0.25; P=0.49). The mean area of the CC was estimated to be 7.2cm(2) (CV=0.17), and showed a significant correlation with the number of callosal fibers (r=0.69, P=0.041). Additionally, an overall density decline from the anterior to the posterior region of the CC was observed, with an inverse relationship between the distribution of large and small fibers along the callosal axis. This study suggests that many mechanisms are involved in the development and determination of axonal projections across the CC that cannot simply be explained by the neocortical neuron number. Further, a positive correlation between callosal fibers and the CC area verifies that callosal fibers are the factor responsible for CC size. Finally, the number of callosal fibers and their diameters are distributed along the CC in a specific pattern that reflects interactions with different brain regions.
Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons transmit all somatosensory information from the trunk region of the body. erbb3 mutant zebrafish do not form DRG neurons because the neural crest cells that generate them migrate aberrantly. Here we report that homozygous erbb3 mutants appear to swim and feed normally, and that they survive through adulthood, despite never forming DRG neurons. The source of sensory compensation in adult erbb3 mutants remains unknown, although it may be from lateral line ganglion neuromasts which are reduced, but present, in erbb3 mutants. We also provide new information about the development of DRG neurons in wild-type juvenile zebrafish.
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) can be delivered over a nerve trunk or muscle belly and can generate contractions by activating motor (peripheral pathway) and sensory (central pathway) axons. In the present experiments, we compared the peripheral and central contributions to plantar flexion contractions evoked by stimulation over the tibial nerve vs. the triceps surae muscles. Generating contractions through central pathways follows Henneman's size principle, whereby low-threshold motor units are activated first, and this may have advantages for rehabilitation. Statistical analyses were performed on data from trials in which NMES was delivered to evoke 10-30% maximum voluntary torque 2-3 s into the stimulation (Time(1)). Two patterns of stimulation were delivered: 1) 20 Hz for 8 s; and 2) 20-100-20 Hz for 3-2-3 s. Torque and soleus electromyography were quantified at the beginning (Time(1)) and end (Time(2); 6-7 s into the stimulation) of each stimulation train. H reflexes (central pathway) and M waves (peripheral pathway) were quantified. Motor unit activity that was not time-locked to each stimulation pulse as an M wave or H reflex (&quot;asynchronous&quot; activity) was also quantified as a second measure of central recruitment. Torque was not different for stimulation over the nerve or the muscle. In contrast, M waves were approximately five to six times smaller, and H reflexes were approximately two to three times larger during NMES over the nerve vs. the muscle. Asynchronous activity increased by 50% over time, regardless of the stimulation location or pattern, and was largest during NMES over the muscle belly. Compared with NMES over the triceps surae muscles, NMES over the tibial nerve produced contractions with a relatively greater central contribution, and this may help reduce muscle atrophy and fatigue when NMES is used for rehabilitation.
We investigated whether deficits in social gaze and affect and in joint attention behaviors are evident within the first year of life among siblings of children with autism who go on to be diagnosed with autism or ASD (ASD) and siblings who are non-diagnosed (NoASD-sib) compared to low-risk controls. The ASD group did not differ from the other two groups at 6 months of age in the frequency of gaze, smiles, and vocalizations directed toward the caregiver, nor in their sensitivity to her withdrawal from interaction. However, by 12 months, infants in the ASD group exhibited lower rates of joint attention and requesting behaviors. In contrast, NoASD-sibs did not differ from comparison infants on any variables of interest at 6 and 12 months.
Mental health care providers increasingly confront challenges posed by the introduction of new neurotechnology into the clinic, but little is known about the impact of such capabilities on practice patterns and relationships with patients. To address this important gap, we sought providers' perspectives on the potential clinical translation of functional neuroimaging for prediction and diagnosis of mental illness. We conducted 32 semi-structured telephone interviews with mental health care providers representing psychiatry, psychology, family medicine, and allied mental health. Our results suggest that mental health providers have begun to re-conceptualize mental illness with a neuroscience gaze. They report an epistemic commitment to the value of a brain scan to provide a meaningful explanation of mental illness for their clients. If functional neuroimaging continues along its projected trajectory to translation, providers will ultimately have to negotiate its role in mental health. Their perspectives, therefore, enrich bioethical discourse surrounding neurotechnology and inform the translational pathway.
Golgi-to-plasma-membrane trafficking of synaptic-like microvesicle (SLMV) proteins, vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and synaptophysin (SYN), and a large dense-core vesicle (LDCV) protein, chromogranin A (CgA), was investigated in undifferentiated neuroendocrine PC12 cells. Live cell imaging and 20C block-release experiments showed that VAChT-GFP, SYN-GFP and CgA-RFP specifically and transiently cohabitated in a distinct sorting compartment during cold block and then separated into synaptic protein transport vesicles (SPTVs) and LDCVs, after release from temperature block. We found that in this trans-Golgi subcompartment there was colocalization of SPTV and LDCV proteins, most significantly with VAMP4 and Golgin97, and to some degree with TGN46, but not at all with TGN38. Moreover, some SNAP25 and VAMP2, two subunits of the exocytic machinery, were also recruited onto this compartment. Thus, in neuroendocrine cells, synaptic vesicle and LDCV proteins converge briefly in a distinct trans-Golgi network subcompartment before sorting into SPTVs and LDCVs, ultimately for delivery to the plasma membrane. This specialized sorting compartment from which SPTVs and LDCVs bud might facilitate the acquisition of common exocytic machinery needed on the membranes of these vesicles.

Poststroke hyperglycaemia (PSH) is common, has an unclear pathophysiology, and is associated with poor outcomes. Animal studies report conflicting findings. We systematically reviewed the effects of hyperglycaemia on infarct volume in middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) models, generating weighted mean differences between groups using random effects models summarised as effect size (normalised to control group infarct volume as 100%) and 95% confidence interval. Of 72 relevant papers, 23 reported infarct volume. Studies involved 664 animals and 35 distinct comparisons. Hyperglycaemia was induced by either streptozotocin (STZ, 17 comparisons, n=303) or dextrose (18 comparisons, n=356). Hyperglycaemic animals had infarcts that were 94% larger, but STZ was associated with significantly greater increase in infarct volumes than dextrose infusion (140% larger versus 48% larger). In seven studies, insulin did not significantly reduce infarct size and results were heterogeneous. Although hyperglycaemia exacerbates infarct volume in MCAO models, studies are heterogeneous, and do not address the common clinical problem of PSH because they have used either the STZ model of type I diabetes or extremely high glucose loads. Insulin had a nonsignificant and significantly heterogeneous effect. Further studies with relevant models may inform clinical trial design.
Using a modified MK-801 (dizocilpine) N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor hypofunction model for schizophrenia, we analyzed glycolysis, as well as glutamatergic, GABAergic, and monoaminergic neurotransmitter synthesis and degradation. Rats received an injection of MK-801 daily for 6 days and on day 6, they also received an injection of [1-(13)C]glucose. Extracts of frontal cortex (FCX), parietal and temporal cortex (PTCX), thalamus, striatum, nucleus accumbens (NAc), and hippocampus were analyzed using (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, high-performance liquid chromatography, and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. A pronounced reduction in glycolysis was found only in PTCX, in which (13)C labeling of glucose, lactate, and alanine was decreased. (13)C enrichment in lactate, however, was reduced in all areas investigated. The largest reductions in glutamate labeling were detected in FCX and PTCX, whereas in hippocampus, striatum, and Nac, (13)C labeling of glutamate was only slightly but significantly reduced. The thalamus was the only region with unaffected glutamate labeling. -Aminobutyric acid (GABA) labeling was reduced in all areas, but most significantly in FCX. Glutamine and aspartate labeling was unchanged. Mitochondrial metabolites were also affected. Fumarate labeling was reduced in FCX and thalamus, whereas malate labeling was reduced in FCX, PTCX, striatum, and NAc. Dopamine turnover was decreased in FCX and thalamus, whereas that of serotonin was unchanged in all regions. In conclusion, neurotransmitter metabolism in the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical loop is severely impaired in the MK-801 (dizocilpine) NMDA receptor hypofunction animal model for schizophrenia.
Thigh muscle volume was assessed using magnetic resonance imaging in 16 subjects with spinal muscular atrophy. Scans were successful for 14 of 16 subjects (1 type 1, 6 type 2, and 7 type 3) as young as 5.7 years. Muscle volume with normal and abnormal signal was measured using blinded, semiautomated analysis of reconstructed data. Results were compared with segmental lean mass estimated by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry and correlated with clinical and electrophysiological measures of disease severity. Muscle volume was reduced with abnormal signal quality. Test-retest reliability (r = .99) and correlation with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (r = .91) were excellent. Type 2 subjects had lower volume (3.5  1.6 vs 6.3  2.8 mL/cm height; P = .06) and higher percentage of muscle with abnormal signal (68%  20% vs 47%  27%; P = .14) than type 3. Reproducibility, tolerability, and strong correlation with clinical measures make magnetic resonance imaging a candidate biomarker for clinical research.



We administered a large battery of neuropsychological tests to an heterogeneous cohort of genetically defined spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) patients in order to assess their cognitive profile and to compare cognitive impairment among different SCA genotypes, particularly between SCA with the classical pattern of olivo-ponto-cerebellar atrophy (SCA1 and SCA2) and those with a relatively &quot;pure&quot; olivo-cerebellar atrophy (SCA6 and SCA8). Our data revealed a neuropsychological picture characterized by fronto-parietal involvement with mnestic, linguistic, visuospatial, attentional, executive, and mood changes, in agreement with the cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome definition. We found a homogeneous neuropsychological profile among SCA subgroups with a prominent role of frontal dysfunction--particularly, attention, memory, and executive functions. We analyzed the possible interactions between neuropsychological pattern and clinical, demographical, and genetic variables. We found the presence of a cognitive impairment at the early stages of the disease, without visuospatial alterations, which appeared later. Age and education represented the most important demographic factors to predict the neuropsychological performance in SCA and in controls, but their effect in patients had definitely more impact. In our sample education could represent a protective factor and a marker of an enriched environment or a better developmental cognitive differentiation. We demonstrated that in our patients there was a distinct subgroup of high functional subjects and that triplet repeats modulated the effect of aging on cognition and progression of motor disability.

Patients with polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M protein and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome caused by underlying plasma cell dyscrasias, although rare, may present with peripheral neuropathy. In this retrospective study we describe the clinical, electrophysiological and pathological profile of 29 patients (27 males and two females, with a mean age of 45.97.9 years) seen between 1983 to 2009 who satisfied the Dispenzieri criteria. Polyneuropathy with weakness and paresthesias of the limbs evolving over 8.39.1 months, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy and skin changes were seen in all patients. Other features included pedal edema (25 patients), papilledema (24), weight loss (23), clubbing (20) and Castleman disease (three patients). We report the pathological features seen in nerve biopsies, osteosclerotic lesions, skin biopsies, lymph node biopsies and bone marrow aspirates. We report the method of a diagnosis confirmation and compare the clinicopathological features of our patients with other published series. Our findings highlight the importance of a meticulous systemic examination and systematic laboratory investigations in the diagnosis of POEMS syndrome.
We sought to study characteristics of patients presenting with psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES), with and without major psychiatric comorbidity. A total of 39 patients who were diagnosed with PNES in a tertiary care setting were studied, and those patients with and without axis I psychiatric disorders in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) were compared. The mean time in confirming the diagnosis was 9 years. More than half the patients were taking anti-epileptic medications when they presented for video-electroencephalographic monitoring. The mean monitoring time required to capture a PNES was 0.6 days. Comorbid chronic medical conditions were found in 38.5% and axis I-psychiatric diagnoses in 48.7%. There were no significant differences in characteristics between those with and without major psychiatric comorbidities.

Several recent behavioral studies have shown that the enumeration of a small number of items (a process termed subitizing) depends on the availability of attentional resources and is not a preattentive process as previously thought. Here we studied the neural correlates of visual enumeration under different attentional loads in a dual-task paradigm using fMRI. Relatively intact subitizing under low attentional load compared to impaired subitizing under high attentional load was associated with an increase in BOLD signal in the right temporo-parietal junction (rTPJ). Crucially, attentionally modulated response in the rTPJ was specific to small set sizes (up to 3 items) and did not occur at larger set sizes (5-7 items). This result has two implications: (1) Subitizing involves part of the fronto-parietal network for stimulus-driven attention providing neural evidence against preattentive subitizing. (2) Activity in rTPJ is set-size modulated. Together with similar evidence from studies probing visual short-term memory, this result suggests that rTPJ modulation might reflect the brain's ability to attentively handle small set sizes. Thus, the rTPJ may play an important role for the emergence of a capacity limit in both enumeration and visual short-term memory.
Edge-assignment determines the perception of relative depth across an edge and the shape of the closer side. Many cues determine edge-assignment, but relatively little is known about the neural mechanisms involved in combining these cues. Here, we manipulated extremal edge and attention cues to bias edge-assignment such that these two cues either cooperated or competed. To index their neural representations, we flickered figure and ground regions at different frequencies and measured the corresponding steady-state visual-evoked potentials (SSVEPs). Figural regions had stronger SSVEP responses than ground regions, independent of whether they were attended or unattended. In addition, competition and cooperation between the two edge-assignment cues significantly affected the temporal dynamics of edge-assignment processes. The figural SSVEP response peaked earlier when the cues causing it cooperated than when they competed, but sustained edge-assignment effects were equivalent for cooperating and competing cues, consistent with a winner-take-all outcome. These results provide physiological evidence that figure-ground organization involves competitive processes that can affect the latency of figural assignment.
The basolateral nucleus of the amygdala receives an extremely dense cholinergic innervation from the basal forebrain that is critical for memory consolidation. Although previous electron microscopic studies determined some of the postsynaptic targets of cholinergic afferents, the majority of postsynaptic structures were dendritic shafts whose neurons of origin were not identified. To make this determination, the present study analyzed the cholinergic innervation of the anterior subdivision of the basolateral amygdalar nucleus (BLa) of the rat using electron microscopic dual-labeling immunocytochemistry. The vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) was used as a marker for cholinergic terminals; calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK) was used as a marker for pyramidal cells, the principal neurons of the BLa; and parvalbumin (PV) was used as a marker for the predominant interneuronal subpopulation in this nucleus. VAChT(+) terminals were visualized by using diaminobenzidine as a chromogen, whereas CAMK(+) or PV(+) neurons were visualized with Vector very intense purple (VIP) as a chromogen. Quantitative analyses revealed that the great majority of dendritic shafts receiving cholinergic inputs were CAMK(+) , indicating that they were of pyramidal cell origin. In fact, 89% of the postsynaptic targets of cholinergic terminals in the BLa were pyramidal cells, including perikarya (3%), dendritic shafts (47%), and dendritic spines (39%). PV(+) structures, including perikarya and dendrites, constituted 7% of the postsynaptic targets of cholinergic axon terminals. The cholinergic innervation of both pyramidal cells and PV(+) interneurons may constitute an anatomical substrate for the generation of oscillatory activity involved in memory consolidation by the BLa.
The adult subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle contains neural stem cells. In rodents, these cells generate neuroblasts that migrate as chains toward the olfactory bulb along the rostral migratory stream (RMS). The neural-stem-cell niche at the ventricular wall is conserved in various animal species, including primates. However, it is unclear how the SVZ and RMS organization in nonhuman primates relates to that of rodents and humans. Here we studied the SVZ and RMS of the adult and neonatal common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate used widely in neuroscience, by electron microscopy, and immunohistochemical detection of cell-type-specific markers. The marmoset SVZ contained cells similar to type B, C, and A cells of the rodent SVZ in their marker expression and morphology. The adult marmoset SVZ had a three-layer organization, as in the human brain, with ependymal, hypocellular, and astrocyte-ribbon layers. However, the hypocellular layer was very thin or absent in the adult-anterior and neonatal SVZ. Anti-PSA-NCAM staining of the anterior SVZ in whole-mount ventricular wall preparations of adult marmosets revealed an extensive network of elongated cell aggregates similar to the neuroblast chains in rodents. Time-lapse recordings of marmoset SVZ explants cultured in Matrigel showed the neuroblasts migrating in chains, like rodent type A cells. These results suggest that some features of neurogenesis and neuronal migration in the SVZ are common to marmosets, humans, and rodents. This basic description of the adult and neonatal marmoset SVZ will be useful for future studies on adult neurogenesis in primates.
The innervation of the nonpregnant rat uterus has been studied in histological sections, which contain only small samples of nerves and are unlikely to afford a complete picture of uterine innervation. Here we used whole-mount preparations of entire full-thickness uterine horns from nonpregnant rats in estrus to visualize autonomic or sensory nerves with peroxidase immunohistochemistry. Immunoreactivity was studied for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-labeled sympathetic nerves; vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), parasympathetic nerves; and substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), sensory nerves. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) identified more than one of these functionally distinct nerve types. Axons of all neurochemical classes entered the uterus at the mesometrium and innervated the uterine smooth muscle. The linea uteri, a dense band of longitudinal muscle opposite the mesometrium, contained more TH-, NPY-, CGRP-, and VAChT-immunoreactive axons than the remaining smooth muscle. Axons immunoreactive for NPY, SP, NOS, and VAChT formed a plexus near the circular muscle-endometrium interface. Rare TH- and NPY-immunoreactive axons and occasional CGRP-immunoreactive axons occurred close to uterine glands. Blood vessels had dense perivascular plexuses of TH- and NPY-containing axons and less dense NOS-, SP-, CGRP-, and VAChT-positive plexuses. The circular muscle plexus and glands were absent opposite the mesometrium. Uterine arterioles formed an interconnected network throughout the uterus. This article provides the first comprehensive description of the autonomic and sensory innervation of the nonpregnant rat uterus and will be a foundation for future studies on changes in uterine innervation caused by normal physiological or pathophysiological challenges.
The parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa stings and injects venom into the cockroach brain to induce a long-lasting hypokinetic state. This state is characterized by decreased responsiveness to aversive stimuli, suggesting the manipulation of a neuromodulatory system in the cockroach's central nervous system. A likely candidate is the opioid system, which is known to affect responsiveness to stimuli in insects. To explore this possibility, we injected cockroaches with different opioid receptor agonists or antagonists before they were stung by a wasp and tested the escape behavior of these cockroaches to electric foot shocks. Antagonists significantly decreased the startle threshold in stung individuals, whereas agonists led to an increased startle threshold in controls. Yet, neither agonists nor antagonists had any effect on grooming. To further characterize the interaction between the venom and opioid receptors, we used an antenna-heart preparation. In un-stung individuals external application of crude venom completely inhibits antenna-heart contractions. In stung individuals the antenna-heart showed no contractions. Although acetylcholine restored contractions, the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone was unable to antagonize the venom inhibition. These results suggest that the venom of A. compressa might contribute to the manipulation of cockroach behavior by affecting the opioid system.
Obesity and eating disorders are usually considered unrelated problems with different causes. However, various studies identify unhealthful weight-control behaviors (fasting, vomiting, or laxative abuse), induced by a negative experience of the body, as the common antecedents of both obesity and eating disorders. But how might negative body image--common to most adolescents, not only to medical patients--be behind the development of obesity and eating disorders? In this paper, I review the &quot;allocentric lock theory&quot; of negative body image as the possible antecedent of both obesity and eating disorders. Evidence from psychology and neuroscience indicates that our bodily experience involves the integration of different sensory inputs within two different reference frames: egocentric (first-person experience) and allocentric (third-person experience). Even though functional relations between these two frames are usually limited, they influence each other during the interaction between long- and short-term memory processes in spatial cognition. If this process is impaired either through exogenous (e.g., stress) or endogenous causes, the egocentric sensory inputs are unable to update the contents of the stored allocentric representation of the body. In other words, these patients are locked in an allocentric (observer view) negative image of their body, which their sensory inputs are no longer able to update even after a demanding diet and a significant weight loss. This article discusses the possible role of virtual reality in addressing this problem within an integrated treatment approach based on the allocentric lock theory.
We begin with a paradox. On one hand, not nearly enough is known about exactly how learning takes place in the brain, although exciting new results are emerging thanks to improved brain imaging and a greater focus on neuroscience by government and universities. But this research is just beginning, and a much larger effort and investment are needed to answer even the most basic questions. On the other hand, more than enough is already known about what best promotes learning to motivate and drive educational reform for years to come. This is a report from the front lines of both research and educational implementation. This information should prove of use to anyone--teachers, students, parents, patients, and health practitioners--who is concerned about how best to improve formal or informal teaching and learning, to help people remember complex instructions, or to change unhealthy habits and practices.
The rising rates, high prevalence, and adverse consequences of obesity and diabetes call for new approaches to the complex behaviors needed to prevent and manage these conditions. Virtual reality (VR) technologies, which provide controllable, multisensory, interactive three-dimensional (3D) stimulus environments, are a potentially valuable means of engaging patients in interventions that foster more healthful eating and physical activity patterns. Furthermore, the capacity of VR technologies to motivate, record, and measure human performance represents a novel and useful modality for conducting research. This article summarizes background information and discussions for a joint July 2010 National Institutes of Health - Department of Defense workshop entitled Virtual Reality Technologies for Research and Education in Obesity and Diabetes. The workshop explored the research potential of VR technologies as tools for behavioral and neuroscience studies in diabetes and obesity, and the practical potential of VR in fostering more effective utilization of diabetes- and obesity-related nutrition and lifestyle information. Virtual reality technologies were considered especially relevant for fostering desirable health-related behaviors through motivational reinforcement, personalized teaching approaches, and social networking. Virtual reality might also be a means of extending the availability and capacity of health care providers. Progress in the field will be enhanced by further developing available platforms and taking advantage of VR's capabilities as a research tool for well-designed hypothesis-testing behavioral science. Multidisciplinary collaborations are needed between the technology industry and academia, and among researchers in biomedical, behavioral, pedagogical, and computer science disciplines. Research priorities and funding opportunities for use of VR to improve prevention and management of obesity and diabetes can be found at agency websites (National Institutes of Health: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/index.html; Department of Defense: www.tatrc.org).
Denovo obsessive-compulsive (OC) symptoms are associated with the use of atypical antipsychotics, clozapine in particular. Treatment of clozapine-associated OC symptoms is challenging and often difficult because continuation of clozapine can result in worsening of OC symptoms, whereas discontinuation may result in worsening of psychosis. We report, for the first time, the use of maintenance electroconvulsive therapy, in clozapine-associated OC symptoms, in a patient with schizophrenia.
Glucocorticoid regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is believed to depend on multiple actions operative within discrete time domains. However, the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms for those glucocorticoid actions remain undetermined. Moreover, there is absence of in vivo studies examining whether there are multiple glucocorticoid effects on HPA axis-related function within an intermediate feedback time frame (1-3 h after glucocorticoid elevation), and whether those effects depend on de novo protein synthesis. We examined in rats the effects of protein synthesis inhibition on HPA axis response to restraint (15 min) after 1 and 3 h phasic corticosterone (CORT) pretreatment. We measured HPA axis hormones (ACTH and CORT) and gene expression in the paraventricular nucleus (c-fos and crh genes), as well as gene expression in the anterior and intermediate pituitaries (c-fos and pomc genes). Both CORT pretreatment intervals produced inhibition of stress-induced ACTH secretion, but no inhibition was observed in the presence of protein synthesis inhibition. CORT pretreatment produced inhibitory effects on stress-induced gene expression that varied for each gene depending on the anatomical site, pretreatment time, and protein synthesis dependency. Taken together, the ACTH and gene expression patterns support the presence of multiple independent glucocorticoid actions initiated during the intermediate glucocorticoid negative feedback phase. Moreover, we conclude that those effects are exerted predominantly on the intrinsic anatomical elements of the HPA axis, and some of those effects depend on CORT induction of the expression of one or more regulatory gene products.
This study investigated whether rhesus monkeys show evidence of metacognition in a reduced, visual oculomotor task that is particularly suitable for use in fMRI and electrophysiology. The 2-stage task involved punctate visual stimulation and saccadic eye movement responses. In each trial, monkeys made a decision and then made a bet. To earn maximum reward, they had to monitor their decision and use that information to bet advantageously. Two monkeys learned to base their bets on their decisions within a few weeks. We implemented an operational definition of metacognitive behavior that relied on trial-by-trial analyses and signal detection theory. Both monkeys exhibited metacognition according to these quantitative criteria. Neither external visual cues nor potential reaction time cues explained the betting behavior; the animals seemed to rely exclusively on internal traces of their decisions. We documented the learning process of one monkey. During a 10-session transition phase, betting switched from random to a decision-based strategy. The results reinforce previous findings of metacognitive ability in monkeys and may facilitate the neurophysiological investigation of metacognitive functions.
Human ether--go-go-related gene (hERG) potassium channels have voltage-dependent closing (deactivation) kinetics that are unusually slow. A Per-Arnt-Sim (PAS) domain in the cytoplasmic N-terminal region of hERG regulates slow deactivation by making a direct interaction with another part of the hERG channel. The mechanism for slow deactivation is unclear, however, because the other regions of the channel that participate in regulation of deactivation are not known. To identify other functional determinants of slow deactivation, we generated hERG channels with deletions of the cytoplasmic C-terminal regions. We report that hERG channels with deletions of the cyclic nucleotide-binding domain (CNBD) had accelerated deactivation kinetics that were similar to those seen in hERG channels lacking the PAS domain. Channels with dual deletions of the PAS domain and the CNBD did not show further acceleration in deactivation, indicating that the PAS domain and the CNBD regulate deactivation by a convergent mechanism. A recombinant PAS domain that we previously showed could directly regulate PAS domain-deleted channels did not regulate channels with dual deletions of the PAS domain and CNBD, suggesting that the PAS domain did not interact with CNBD-deleted channels. Biochemical protein interaction assays showed that glutathione S-transferase (GST)-PAS (but not GST) bound to a CNBD-containing fusion protein. Coexpression of PAS domain-deleted subunits (with intact C-terminal regions) and CNBD-deleted subunits (with intact N-terminal regions) resulted in channels with partially restored slow deactivation kinetics, suggesting regulatory intersubunit interactions between PAS domains and CNBDs. Together, these data suggest that the mechanism for regulation of slow deactivation in hERG channels is an interaction between the N-terminal PAS domain and the C-terminal CNBD.

Findings from previous research assessing sleep quality in caregivers are inconsistent due to differences in sleep assessment methods. This study evaluated sleep in dementia caregivers using a comprehensive sleep assessment utilizing an ambulatory polysomnography (PSG) device. A total of 20 caregivers and 20 noncaregivers rated their perceived sleep quality, stress, and depressive symptoms; provided samples of cortisol and inflammatory biomarkers; and completed an objective sleep assessment using a portable PSG device. Caregivers reported greater perceived stress than noncaregivers. Next, the groups had different sleep architecture: caregivers spent less proportion of their sleep in restorative sleep stages compared to noncaregivers. Further, levels of C-reactive protein and awakening salivary cortisol were greater in caregivers than in noncaregivers, and these measures were related to sleep quality. Our findings indicate that sleep disruption is a significant concomitant of caregiving and may affect caregiver's health. Sleep quality of caregivers might be a useful target for a clinical intervention.
Psychotic symptoms are common in elderly persons with dementia. These symptoms affect a person's ability to function in daily life and put strain on the caregiver. Most studies focus on psychotic symptoms in clinical samples with Alzheimer disease (AD). Thus, their prevalence and relation with dementia subtype and severity in very old populations is unclear. We assessed a representative sample of 85-year-old individuals living in Gothenburg, Sweden (n = 494) using neuropsychiatric examinations, key informant interviews, and medical record reviews; 147 had dementia. Dementia and its severity were diagnosed in accordance with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (Third Edition, Revision [DSM-III-R]) criteria. Alzheimer disease according to the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria was diagnosed in 64 persons and vascular dementia (VaD) according to Erkinjuntti criteria was observed in 69. Fourteen had dementia due to other causes. Psychotic symptoms were classified according to DSM-III-R. The prevalence of psychotic symptoms in this very old population was 36% among AD cases compared to 54% in VaD cases (P = .04). Proportions with psychotic symptoms increased with increasing dementia severity in individuals with AD. No such association could be shown in those with VaD. This finding of a high proportion of psychotic symptoms also in individuals with mild severity of VaD should alert health professionals to evaluate dementia in very old patients who present with hallucinations or delusions.

Chromogranin A (CHGA) is a secretory protein stored in and released from neurons and cells of the diffuse neuroendocrine system. Cells of the adrenal medulla and adrenergic terminals are a main source of CHGA but also myocardial cells produce it under stress conditions. After secretion, CHGA is cleaved into several biologically active fragments, including vasostatins and catestatin. CHGA and its proteolytic peptides exert a broad spectrum of activities on the cardiovascular system. They act on blood pressure by controlling the vascular tone and the cardiac inotropic and chronotropic function. CHGA revealed to be a sensitive marker of myocardial dysfunction, with a high predictive power of morbidity and mortality in heart failure and ischemic heart disease. In addition, CHGA has been involved in the control of sustained endothelial inflammation and has been shown to be a good marker of persistent vascular inflammation in rheumatologic disorders affecting vessels.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system that is rare even though the proven etiological agent of PML, the polyomavirus JC (JC virus), is ubiquitous within the human population. The common feature of PML cases appears to be underlying immunosuppression, and PML has gained clinical visibility because of its association with human immunodeficiency virus and AIDS and its occurrence as a side effect of certain immunomodulatory drugs. A hypothesis has gained general acceptance that JC virus causes a primary infection in childhood and enters a latent state, after which immunosuppression allows viral reactivation leading to PML. Nonetheless, many important aspects of PML pathogenesis remain unclear, including the molecular bases of latency and reactivation, the site(s) of latency, the relationship of archetype and prototype virus and the mode of virus transmission within the body and between individuals. In this review, we will revisit these areas and examine what the available evidence suggests.
Nanotechnologies are often said to be &quot;converging&quot; with other technologies like biotechnology, information technology, and cognitive science. And so-called &quot;NBIC convergence&quot; is thought to enable &quot;enhancement&quot; of human performance. First, I classify various kinds of enhancement. Second, I focus on the &quot;cybernetic enhancement,&quot; to which nanotechnologies are supposed to contribute, and analyze the connection and integration of humans with machines, which could lead to the cyborgization of human beings. Third, I examine the portrayal of robot/cyborg technology in Japanese popular media, point out the tendency to empathy or ensoulment concerning robots/cyborgs, and raise the question of &quot;ethical issues of ethical enhancement.&quot; Fourth, I compare nanotechnologies with neurotechnology and criticize the hype of &quot;converging technologies.&quot;
We report the heritability of response inhibition, latency, and variability, which are potential markers of genetic risk in neuropsychiatric conditions. Genetic and environmental influences on cancellation and restraint, response latency, and variability measured in a novel variant of the stop signal task were studied in 139 eight-year-old twin pairs from a birth cohort. Cancellation (50%), restraint (27%), and response latency (41%) showed significant heritability, the balance being non-shared environmental influences and/or error. Response variability was not heritable, with 23% of the variance attributable to shared environmental influences and 77% to non-shared environmental risk or error. The phenotypic correlation between response cancellation and restraint was -.44 and between response latency and restraint was .21. These phenotypic correlations were entirely genetic in origin. The phenotypic correlation between response variability and % successful inhibition was .27, but was not genetic. Cancellation and restraint were heritable and shared genetic influences, indicating that they may be influenced by a common gene or genes. Response latency was moderately heritable and shared genetic influences with restraint, but was not correlated with cancellation. Response variability was not heritable. These results support the potential of response inhibition and latency as endophenotypes in genetic research.
Salamander large cells facilitated identification and localization of lipids by MALDI imaging mass spectrometry. Salamander retina lipid extract showed similarity with rodent retina lipid extract in phospholipid content and composition. Like rodent retina section, distinct layer distributions of phospholipids were observed in the salamander retina section. Phosphatidylcholines (PCs) composing saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids (PC 32:0, PC 32:1, and PC 34:1) were detected mainly in the outer and inner plexiform layers (OPL and IPL), whereas PCs containing polyunsaturated fatty acids (PC 36:4, PC 38:6, and PC 40:6) composed the inner segment (IS) and outer segment (OS). The presence of PCs containing polyunsaturated fatty acids in the OS layer implied that these phospholipids form flexible lipid bilayers, which facilitate phototransduction process occurring in the rhodopsin rich OS layer. Distinct distributions and relative signal intensities of phospholipids also indicated their relative abundance in a particular cell or a cell part. Using salamander large cells, a single cell level localization and identification of biomolecules could be achieved by MALDI imaging mass spectrometry.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a lethal disease, characterized by progressive death of motor neurons with unknown etiology. Evidence from animal models indicates that neuronal dysfunction precedes the clinical phase of the disease. However, in parallel extensive nerve sprouting and synaptic remodeling as part of a compensatory reinnervation processes and possibly also of motor neurons pathology was demonstrated. Therefore, the weakness in muscle groups will not be clinically apparent until a large proportion of motor units are lost. This motor unit loss and associated muscle function which precedes the death of motor neurons may resemble the &quot;die-back&quot; phenomena. Studies indicated that in the early stages the nerve terminals and motor neuron junctions are partially degraded while the cell bodies in the spinal cord are mostly intact. Treatments to rescue motor neurons according to &quot;dying-forward&quot; model of motor neuron pathology in ALS have shown only limited success in SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice as well as in humans. If cell body degeneration is late compared with axonal degeneration, early intervention could potentially prevent loss of motor neurons. Therefore, it should be considered, according to the dying back hypothesis, to focus on motor neurons terminals in order to delay or prevent the progressive degradation.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder leading to slow neuronal loss in several brain regions. It is characterised by the presence of cerebral senile plaques comprised of aggregated amyloid- peptides. Transcriptional regulation of the -secretase complex, which cleaves the -amyloid precursor protein to produce A-peptides, could modulate the pathological phenotype of AD patients. This study investigates whether rosuvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, modulates the expression of genes involved in the function of the -secretase complex, in a human cellular model for A peptide accumulation. In particular, we analysed the effect of the statin combined with apoptotic induction. Experimental apoptosis was induced by thapsigargin treatment, a drug that depletes intracellular calcium stores via inhibition of the calcium ATPase pump. Notably, systemic calcium dysregulation accompanies almost all of the brain pathology processes observed in AD. We found differential transcriptional regulation of some -secretase cofactors relative to rosuvastatin treatment, in cells expressing Swedish mutant APP. Interestingly, this statin down-regulated the transcription of some enzyme cofactors, similar to treatment with thapsigargin. However, rosuvastatin neither affected the basal A levels nor counteracted APP processing or A over-production triggered by the thapsigargin. Our results provide evidence that rosuvastatin alters gene expression of the -secretase complex without affecting enzyme activity.
Neonatal hypoxia induces brain injury through alterations in neurotransmitters and its receptors. Molecular processes regulating serotonergic receptors play an important role in the control of respiration under hypoxia. The present study evaluates the serotonergic regulation of neonatal hypoxia and its resuscitation methods. Receptor binding assays and gene expression studies were done to evaluate the changes in 5HT(2A) receptors and its transporter in the cerebral cortex of hypoxic neonatal rats and hypoxic rats resuscitated with glucose, oxygen, and epinephrine. Hypoxic stress increased total 5HT and 5HT(2A) receptor number along with an upregulation of 5HT(2A) receptor and 5HT transporter gene in the cortex. The enhanced cortical 5HT(2A) receptors may act as a modulator of ventilatory response to hypoxia. These alterations were reversed to near control by glucose supplementation. Glucose supplementation helped in managing the serotonergic functional alterations. Hypoxia-induced adenosine triphosphate depletion causes a reduction in blood glucose levels which can be encountered by glucose administration, and oxygenation helps in overcoming the anaerobic condition. The adverse effect of immediate oxygenation and epinephrine supplementation was also reported. This has immense clinical significance in establishing a proper resuscitation for the management of neonatal hypoxia.
Neuronal cell cycle reentry, which is associated with aberrant tau phosphorylation, is thought to be a mechanism of neurodegeneration in AD. Caffeine is a neuroprotective drug known to inhibit the cell cycle, suggesting that its neuroprotective nature may rely, at least in part, on preventing tau abnormalities secondary to its inhibitory effect on neuronal cell cycle-related pathways. Accordingly, we have explored in the present study the impact of caffeine on cell cycle-linked parameters and tau phosphorylation patterns in an attempt to identify molecular clues to its neuroprotective effect. We show that caffeine blocks the cell cycle at G1 phase in neuroblastoma cells and leads to a decrease in tau phosphorylation; similarly, exposure of postmitotic neurons to caffeine led to changes in tau phosphorylation concomitantly with downregulation of Akt signaling. Taken together, our results show a unique impact of caffeine on tau phosphorylation and warrant further investigation to address whether caffeine may help prevent neuronal death by preventing tau abnormalities secondary to aberrant entry into the cell cycle.
This study investigates whether modifying the instructions of the Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Checklist (PCL) for military survey research changes posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptom reporting or prevalence. The sample consisted of 1691 soldiers who were randomly assigned to complete 1 of 3 versions of the PCL, which differed only in the wording of the instructions. Group differences in demographic variables, combat exposure, mean PTSD symptoms, and PTSD prevalence estimates were examined. Results showed that there were no statistically significant differences in the outcomes across the PCL versions. The findings indicate that researchers may make modifications to the PCL instructions to meet research needs without affecting PTSD symptom reporting or prevalence estimates.
Long-term follow-up after disaster exposure indicates increased rates of psychological distress. However, trajectories and rates of recovery in large samples of disaster-exposed survivors are largely lacking. A group of 3457 Swedish survivors temporarily on vacation in Southeast Asia during the 2004 tsunami were assessed by postal questionnaire at 14 months and 3 years after the tsunami regarding post-traumatic stress reactions (IES-R) and general mental health (GHQ-12). There was a general pattern of resilience and recovery 3 years postdisaster. Severe exposure and traumatic bereavement were associated with increased post-traumatic stress reactions and heightened risk for impaired mental health. The rate of recovery was lower among respondents exposed to life threat and among bereaved. Severe trauma exposure and bereavement seem to have considerable long-term impact on psychological distress and appear to slow down the recovery process. Readiness among health agencies for identification of symptoms and provision of interventions might facilitate optimal recovery.
Wheel-running and treadmill running physical exercise have been shown to alleviate parkinsonism in both laboratory and clinical studies. MPTP was administered to C57/BL6 mice using two different procedures: (a) administration of a double-dose regime (MPTP 2  20 or 2  40 mg/kg, separated by a 24-h interval), vehicle (saline 5 ml/kg) or saline (vehicle 2  5 ml/kg), and (b) administration of a single-dose weekly regime (MPTP 1  40 mg/kg) or saline (vehicle 1  5 ml/kg) repeated over 4 consecutive weeks. For each procedure, two different physical exercise regimes were followed: (a) after the double-dose MPTP regime, mice were given daily 30-min periods of wheel-running exercise over 5 consecutive days/week or placed in a cage in close proximity to the running wheels for 3 weeks. (b) Mice were either given wheel-running activity on 4 consecutive days (30-min periods) or placed in a cage nearby for 14 weeks. Behavioral testing was as follows: (a) after 3 weeks of exercise/no exercise, mice were tested for spontaneous motor activity (60 min) and subthreshold L-Dopa (5 mg/kg)-induced activity. (b) Spontaneous motor activity was measured on the fifth day during each of the each of the first 5 weeks (Tests 1-5), about 1 h before injections (first 4 weeks), and continued on the 5th days of the 6th to the 14th weeks (Tests 6-14). Subthreshold L-Dopa (5 mg/kg)-induced activity was tested on the 6th, 8th, 10th, 12th and 14th weeks. (b) Mice from the single-dose MPTP weekly regime were killed during the 15th week and striatal regions taken for dopamine analysis, whereas frontal and parietal cortex and hippocampus were taken for analysis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). It was shown that in both experiments, i.e., the double-dose regime and single-dose weekly regime of MPTP administration, physical activity attenuated markedly the MPTP-induced akinesia/hypokinesia in both the spontaneous motor activity and restored motor activity completely in subthreshold L-Dopa tests. Running wheel activity attenuated markedly the loss of dopamine due to repeated administrations of MPTP. BDNF protein level in the parietal cortex was elevated by the MPTP insult and increased further by physical exercise. Physical running wheel exercise alleviated both the functional and biomarker expressions of MPTP-induced parkinsonism.

We investigated the expression of a novel glycophospholipid, phosphatidylglucoside (PtdGlc), in adult mouse brains. Immunohistochemical analysis with DIM21 antibody, a monoclonal anti-PtdGlc antibody, revealed robust PtdGlc staining in the two primary neurogenic regions of the adult rodent brain, the subventricular zone (SVZ) lining the lateral ventricle and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus. Intriguingly, the staining pattern of PtdGlc appeared to overlap that of glial fibrillary acidic protein, an adult neural stem cell marker in these regions. Further immunohistochemical analysis revealed that PtdGlc expression on the cell membranes of adult SVZ neural stem cells significantly overlapped with other proposed adult neural stem cell markers. Moreover, PtdGlc(+) cells isolated from adult mouse SVZs by fluorescence-activated cell sorting with anti-PtdGlc antibody efficiently generated neurospheres in cell culture. These cells differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes in vitro, directly demonstrating that PtdGlc-expressing cells possessed multipotency. Our data suggest that PtdGlc could be a useful adult stem cell marker.

GM1 and GD1a gangliosides occur in both membranes of the nuclear envelope (NE) together with two isoforms of neuraminidase. The Neu3 isoform of neuraminidase occurs in the inner membrane of the NE and Neu1 in the outer membrane. Both isoforms convert GD1a to GM1 within the respective membranes. GM1 in the inner membrane is tightly associated with a Na(+) /Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) and potentiates the latter's activity. The NCX/GM1 complex mediates transfer of nucleoplasmic Ca(2+) to the NE lumen and hence to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) with which it is continuous. Since cytoplasmic- and nucleoplasmic Ca(2+) are in homeostatic equilibrium (via nuclear pores), the nuclear NCX/GM1 complex acts to gate Ca(2+) transfer from cytosol to ER via nucleoplasm and NE. This constitutes an alternate route to the SERCA pump, indicating the influence of nuclear NCX/GM1 on whole cell Ca(2+) homeostasis. Use of cameleon-fluorescent Ca(2+) indicators (R. Tsien) demonstrated no Ca(2+) transfer from cytosol/nucleoplasm to ER in cells lacking nuclear NCX (Jurkat), and significantly reduced Ca(2+) transfer in cells lacking nuclear GM1 (NG-CR72). NCX/GM1 appears in the NE of neurons as they differentiate and serves a cytoprotective function, as seen in the high susceptibility of GalNAcT-/- knockout mice to kainate-induced seizure activity. This was alleviated by intraperitoneal injections of LIGA-20 a derivative of GM1 that is able (unlike GM1 itself) to traverse the blood brain barrier and neuronal plasma membrane and insert into the NE where it restores NCX exchanger activity. Absence or loss of nuclear GM1 renders cells vulnerable to apoptotic elimination.
G-protein coupled receptors may mediate their effects on neuronal growth and differentiation through activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2), often elicited by transactivation of growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases. This elaborate signaling process includes inducible formation and trafficking of multiprotein signaling complexes and is facilitated by pre-ordained membrane microdomains, in particular lipid rafts. In this study, we have uncovered novel signaling interactions of cannabinoid receptors with fibroblast growth factor receptors, which depended on lipid rafts and led to ERK1/2 activation in primary neurons derived from chick embryo telencephalon. More specifically, the cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R) agonist methanandamide induced tyrosine phosphorylation and transactivation of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR)1 via Src and Fyn, which drove an amplification wave in ERK1/2 activation. Transactivation of FGFR1 was accompanied by the formation of a protein kinase C -dependent multiprotein complex that included CB1R, Fyn, Src, and FGFR1. Recruitment of molecules increased with time of exposure to methanandamide, suggesting that in addition to signaling it also served trafficking of receptors. Upon agonist stimulation we also detected a rapid incorporation of CB1R, as well as activated Src and Fyn, and FGFR1 in lipid rafts. Most importantly, lipid raft integrity was a pre-requisite for CB1R-dependent complex formation. Our data provide evidence that lipid rafts may organize CB1 receptor proximal signaling events, namely activation of Src and Fyn, and transactivation of FGFR1 towards activation of ERK1/2 and induction of neuronal differentiation.
The survival and death rates of inflammatory cells directly control their number and are substantially associated with the degree of inflammation. Microglia, key players in neuroinflammation, often cause excessive reactions implicated in neurological diseases. However, the mechanisms that determine microglial fate under pathological conditions remain to be elucidated. Here, we report that activation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS, a Toll-like receptor 4 ligand), an inflammation inducer, primarily promotes survival of microglia, but as its concentration is increased it induces cell death, resulting in decreased cell number. Moreover, extracellular ATP, which is released upon tissue damage, further enhanced the survival induced by a low LPS concentration and the death induced by a high LPS concentration. The survival-promoting effect of ATP was mimicked by non-hydrolyzable ATP analog, adenosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate), and also by the P2X(7) receptor agonist, 2'(3')-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)adenosine 5'-triphosphate, and was suppressed by the P2X(7) antagonists, Brilliant Blue G and A 438079. On the contrary, the death of LPS-activated microglia was not affected by adenosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate), but enhanced by adenosine, ATP breakdown product. Thus, extracellular ATP modulates microglial survival and death in different ways involving P2X(7) receptor activation and ATP degradation to adenosine, respectively. Such Toll-like receptor 4/purinergic signaling may provide a fine regulatory system of neuroinflammation through modulating the microglial cell number.
In the adult brain, neurogenesis under physiological conditions occurs in the subventricular zone and in the dentate gyrus. Although the exact molecular mechanisms that regulate neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation are largely unknown, several factors have been shown to affect neurogenesis. Decreased neurogenesis in the hippocampus has been recognized as one of the mechanisms of age-related brain dysfunction. Furthermore, in pathological conditions of the central nervous system associated with neuroinflammation, inflammatory mediators such as cytokines and chemokines can affect the capacity of brain stem cells and alter neurogenesis. In this review, we summarize the state of the art on the effects of neuroinflammation on adult neurogenesis and discuss the use of the lipopolysaccharide-model to study the effects of inflammation and reactive-microglia on brain stem cells and neurogenesis. Furthermore, we discuss the possible causes underlying reduced neurogenesis with normal aging and potential anti-inflammatory, pro-neurogenic interventions aimed at improving memory deficits in normal and pathological aging and in neurodegenerative diseases.
Dendritic trafficking and translation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) transcripts play a key role in mediating synaptic plasticity. Recently, we demonstrated that siRNA-mediated knockdown of translin, an RNA-binding protein, impairs KCl-induced dendritic trafficking of BDNF mRNA in cultured hippocampal neurons. We have now assessed whether translin deletion impairs dendritic trafficking of BDNF mRNA in hippocampal neurons in vivo. We have found that translin and its partner protein, trax, undergo dendritic translocation in response to treatment with pilocarpine, a pro-convulsant muscarinic agonist that increases dendritic trafficking of BDNF mRNA in hippocampal neurons. In translin knockout mice, the basal level of dendritic BDNF mRNA is decreased in CA1 pyramidal neurons. However, translin deletion does not block pilocarpine's ability to increase dendritic trafficking of BDNF mRNA indicating that the requirement for translin in this process varies with the stimulus employed to drive it. Consistent with this inference, we found that dendritic trafficking of BDNF mRNA induced by bath application of recombinant BDNF in cultured hippocampal neurons, is not blocked by siRNA-mediated knockdown of translin. Taken together, these in vivo and in vitro findings indicate that dendritic trafficking of BDNF mRNA can be mediated by both translin-dependent and -independent mechanisms.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) neurotransmission is negatively regulated by 5-HT1A autoreceptors on raphe neurons, and is implicated in mood disorders. Pet-1/FEV is an ETS transcription factor expressed exclusively in serotonergic neurons and is essential for serotonergic differentiation, although its regulation of 5-HT receptors has not yet been studied. Here, we show by electrophoretic mobility shift assay that recombinant human Pet-1/FEV binds directly to multiple Pet-1 elements of the human 5-HT1A receptor promoter to enhance its transcriptional activity. In luciferase reporter assays, mutational analysis indicated that while several sites contribute, the Pet-1 site at -1406 bp had the greatest effect on 5-HT1A promoter activity. To address the effect of Pet-1 on 5-HT1A receptor regulation in vivo, we compared the expression of 5-HT1A receptor RNA and protein in Pet-1 null and wild-type littermate mice. In the raphe nuclei of Pet-1-/- mice tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2) RNA, and 5-HT and TPH immunostaining were greatly reduced, indicating a deficit in 5-HT production. Raphe 5-HT1A RNA and protein levels were also reduced in Pet-1-deficient mice, consistent with an absence of Pet-1-mediated transcriptional enhancement of 5-HT1A autoreceptors in serotonergic neurons. Interestingly, 5-HT1A receptor expression was up-regulated in the hippocampus, but down-regulated in the striatum and cortex. These data indicate that, in addition to transcriptional regulation by Pet-1 in raphe neurons, 5-HT1A receptor expression is regulated indirectly by alterations in 5-HT neurotransmission in a region-specific manner that together may contribute to the aggressive/anxiety phenotype observed in Pet-1 null mice.
Methamphetamine (METH) is toxic to dopaminergic (DAergic) terminals in animals and humans. An early event in METH neurotoxicity is an oxidative stress followed by damage to proteins and lipids. The removal of damaged proteins is accomplished by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and the impairment of this system can cause neurodegeneration. Whether dysfunction of the UPS contributes to METH toxicity to DAergic terminals has not been determined. The present investigation examined the effects of METH on functions of parkin and proteasome in rat striatal synaptosomes. METH rapidly modified parkin via conjugation with 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE) to decrease parkin levels and decreased the activity of the 26S proteasome while simultaneously increasing chymotrypsin-like activity and 20S proteasome levels. Prior injections of vitamin E diminished METH-induced changes to parkin and the 26S proteasome as well as long-term decreases in DA and its metabolites' concentrations in striatal tissue. These results suggest that METH causes lipid peroxidation-mediated damage to parkin and the 26S proteasome. As the changes in parkin and 26S occur before the sustained deficits in DAergic markers, an early loss of UPS function may be important in mediating the long-term degeneration of striatal DAergic terminals via toxic accumulation of parkin substrates and damaged proteins.
Monoamine action in the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens plays essential roles in striatal physiology. Although research often focuses on dopamine and its receptors, norepinephrine (NE) and adrenergic receptors are also crucial in regulating striatal function. While noradrenergic neurotransmission has been identified in the striatum, little is known regarding the signaling pathways activated by -adrenergic receptors in this brain region. Using cultured striatal neurons, we characterized a novel signaling pathway by which activation of 1-adrenergic receptors leads to the rapid phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), a transcription-factor implicated as a molecular switch underlying long-term changes in brain function. NE-mediated CREB phosphorylation requires 1-adrenergic receptor stimulation of a receptor tyrosine kinase, ultimately leading to the activation of a Ras/Raf/MEK/MAPK/MSK signaling pathway. Activation of 1-adrenergic receptors also induces CRE-dependent transcription and increased c-fos expression. In addition, stimulation of 1-adrenergic receptors produces cAMP production, but surprisingly, 1-adrenergic receptor activation of adenylyl cyclase was not functionally linked to rapid CREB phosphorylation. These findings demonstrate that activation of 1-adrenergic receptors on striatal neurons can stimulate two distinct signaling pathways. These adrenergic actions can produce long-term changes in gene expression, as well as rapidly modulate cellular physiology. By elucidating the mechanisms by which NE and 1-adrenergic receptor activation affects striatal physiology, we provide the means to more fully understand the role of monoamines in modulating striatal function, specifically how NE and 1-adrenergic receptors may affect striatal physiology.
This report is a meeting summary of the 2010 Angelman Syndrome Foundation's scientific symposium on the neuroscience of UBE3A. Angelman syndrome is characterized by loss of speech, severe developmental delay, seizures, and ataxia. These core symptoms are caused by maternal allele disruptions of a single gene-UBE3A. UBE3A encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets certain proteins for proteasomal degradation. This biology has led to the expectation that the identification of Ube3a protein targets will lead to therapies for Angelman syndrome. The recent discovery of Ube3a substrates such as Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeletal protein) provides new insight into the mechanisms underlying the synaptic function and plasticity deficits caused by the loss of Ube3a. In addition to identifying Ube3a substrates, there have also been recent advances in understanding UBE3A's integrated role in the neuronal repertoire of genes and protein interactions. A developmental picture is now emerging whereby UBE3A gene dosage on chromosome 15 alters synaptic function, with deficiencies leading to Angelman syndrome and overexpression associated with classic autism symptomatology.
Orexins/hypocretins are key neuropeptides responsible for regulating central arousal and reward circuits. Two receptors respond to orexin signaling, orexin 1 receptor (OX(1)R) and orexin 2 receptor (OX(2)R) with partially overlapping nervous system distributions. Genetic studies suggest orexin receptor antagonists could be therapeutic for insomnia and other disorders with disruptions of sleep and wake. Suvorexant (MK-4305) is a potent, selective, and orally bioavailable antagonist of OX(1)R and OX(2)R currently under clinical investigation as a novel therapy for insomnia. Examination of Suvorexant in radioligand binding assays using tissue from transgenic rats expressing the human OX(2)R found nearly full receptor occupancy (&gt;90%) at plasma exposures of 1.1 M. Dosed orally Suvorexant significantly and dose-dependently reduced locomotor activity and promoted sleep in rats (10, 30, and 100 mg/kg), dogs (1 and 3 mg/kg), and rhesus monkeys (10 mg/kg). Consistent cross-species sleep/wake architecture changes produced by Suvorexant highlight a unique opportunity to develop dual orexin antagonists as a novel therapy for insomnia.
An introduction to the discipline of pharmacology is a standard part of the scientific foundation of medical school curricula. Neuroimmune pharmacology is a new subtopic that integrates fundamental concepts of neuroscience, immunology, infectious disease, and pharmacology. The integration of these areas is important to medical training in view of the growing concern over neurodegenerative diseases and cognitive disorders. This article introduces a submodule and concomitant syllabus for inclusion of neuroimmune pharmacology as a component of a pharmacology curriculum. The introductory lectures of neuroimmune pharmacology will concentrate on the role of the immune system in (1) schizophrenia and major depression; (2) neurodegenerative disorders; and (3) drug addiction. Emphasis will be placed on the competencies of critical thinking, problem solving, learning interest, and effectiveness of medical students. Problem-based learning and case study discussions will also be applied.
Neuroimmune pharmacology is an interdisciplinary field which integrates neuroscience, immunology, and pharmacology. This new discipline has developed over the last two decades in order to study the etiology and treatment of disorders involving both the immune and nervous systems. The proposed Neuroimmune Pharmacology course is a semester-long elective course for students in molecular and cellular biology graduate programs. It is designed to introduce these students to basic principles and practices of neuroimmune pharmacology as well as to the application of molecular and cellular biological techniques in the study of neuroimmune disorders. The goal of this elective course is to help prepare future molecular and cellular biologists to undertake research initiatives in the field of neuroimmunity in health and disease.
The emerging field of neuroimmune pharmacology (NIP) is the confluence of three distinct disciplines: neuroscience, immunology, and pharmacology (Gendelman and Ikezu 2008). NIP was born from the realization that inflammation within the central nervous system (CNS) plays a crucial role in many neurological pathologies and as such offers a rich array of novel pharmacological targets as potential therapeutics. As this field is likely to have a major impact in medical science, educating future physicians on this area will help increase awareness and may potentially inspire them to pursue careers in the field of NIP. However, a key challenge for medical educators, is how best to incorporate new material on emerging fields, such as NIP, into the medical school curriculum, specifically in the context of a medical neuroscience course. We propose the addition of two 50-min lectures plus an additional optional 2-h lab module to the standard first year medical neuroscience class curriculum. Lecture 1 will focus on how the CNS and the immune system inter-communicate with one another with emphasis on neuroanatomical features and chemical signal transduction between the two systems. Lecture 2 provides an introduction to inflammation in the CNS and provides a series of clinical correlates to describe how CNS inflammation contributes to the disease process. The lab module provides detailed visual examples of how CNS inflammation influences disease processes and provides two examples of how application of an immunomodulatory pharmacological agent can modify disease processes.
Neuroimmune pharmacology is a newly emerging field that intersects with neuroscience, immunology, and pharmacology and that is seeking avenues for translational research and better understanding of disease mechanisms. It focuses on the immunity of the central nervous system (CNS) which is greatly influenced by endogenous effectors, such as cytokines and neurotransmitters, and by exogenous substances, including therapeutic compounds, infectious pathogens, and drugs of abuse. In this article, we attempt to raise awareness of the pivotal discovery of how those mediators affect the immunity of the CNS in both physiological conditions and processes of certain mental illnesses, including psychiatric disorders, neurodegenerative diseases, and cerebral dysfunctions due to drugs of abuse. The abnormality in cytokine networks, neurotransmitter homeostasis, and other immune responses may be involved in the neuropathology associated with those mental illnesses, and the therapeutic effects of the potential treatments can be attributed, at least partially, to their immunomodulatory activities. However, the resulting inflammatory cytokines from certain treatments frequently cause psychiatric complications. In addition, the poor neuropathological outcomes frequently found among drug abusers with HIV-1 infection appear to be related to the neurotoxic and immunomodulatory effects of the drugs used. Importantly, glial cells, especially microglia and astrocytes, are key players in the immunomodulatory activities in the CNS, and the functioning CNS is largely dependent upon the reciprocal interactions between neurons and glial cells. Therefore, glia-neuron interactions have become a critical issue for further understanding the disease mechanism. From this review, readers will gain insights into the new field of neuroimmune pharmacology, with a focus on the impacts of CNS immunity on the mental illnesses.
The focus of this commentary is to describe how neuroscience, immunology, and pharmacology intersect and how interdisciplinary research involving these areas has expanded knowledge in the area of neuroscience, in particular. Examples are presented to illustrate that the brain can react to the peripheral immune system and possesses immune function and that resident immune molecules play a role in normal brain physiology. In addition, evidence is presented that the brain immune system plays an important role in mediating neurodegenerative diseases, the aging process, and neurodevelopment and synaptic plasticity. The identification of these mechanisms has been facilitated by pharmacological studies and has opened new possibilities for pharmacotherapeutic approaches to the treatment of brain disorders. The emerging field of neuroimmune pharmacology exemplifies this interdisciplinary approach and has facilitated the study of basic cellular and molecular events and disease states and opens avenues for novel therapies.
Web-based instruction of biomedical sciences courses has increased dramatically during the last decade, and this increase has been driven by the need to increase student access to educational programs and by the increasing demand for courses that are compatible with distance learning. Here, a blended learning curriculum in neuroimmune pharmacology is described that combines web-based learning modules with traditional face-to-face lectures. The course content is appropriate for graduate-level students and can be adapted to an entirely web-based course that can be deployed for distance learning. In addition to providing a course syllabus, this article describes the process of creating the web-based modules for course construction.
As science continues to evolve and expand some major areas of interest are now crossing boundaries to become multi-disciplinary in nature closely reflecting the biological processes of the organism as a whole. The fields of neuroscience, immunology, and pharmacology are good examples of one such emerging inter-disciplinary area. This article is focused on developing a curriculum for undergraduate pre-medical students in the area of neuroimmune pharmacology (NIP) to empower them with the knowledge of neuroscience and its interaction with immune responses and drug interactions. This course is intended to amalgamate and put into perspective a large body of knowledge including: (1) brain function in health and disease, (2) cross talk between neural and immune responses, and (3) the pharmacology of drugs of abuse in the context of neurodegenerative diseases. The goal of this course is to expose pre-medical students to the field of NIP so that they are equipped with a solid foundation in these multidisciplinary fields for future clinical/academic careers.
This article provides a description of a proposed sub-module and attendant syllabus for inclusion of neuroimmune pharmacology as a sub-discipline of an immunology course that is offered to medical students during the first year of medical school. Neuroimmune pharmacology is an area of study that integrates fundamental concepts in pharmacology, immunology, neuroscience, and infectious disease. This convergent disciplinary area is of increasing importance to the foundational training of medical students, especially in view of the recognition that a variety of neuropathological processes such as demyelinating disease, drug abuse, and viral encephalitis has an immunological component. A lecture sub-module that addresses this convergent topic is proposed for inclusion as a sub-discipline of an immunology course offered as a component of a Scientific Foundations curriculum that takes place during the first 6 months of medical school. It is proposed to revisit the neuroimmune pharmacology topic area in a more clinical setting during the subsequent 14 months of study when medical students would be presented with an organ system-based curriculum. In this instructional model, basic science teaching faculty would interface with clinical faculty in presenting the topical block material in the context of different organ systems. Discussion of clinical cases related to neuroimmune pharmacology would be integrated into the organ system-based curriculum in order to highlight a translational relevance to medical practice.
Neuroimmune pharmacology (NIP) can be considered a multidisciplinary science where areas of neuroscience, immunology, and pharmacology intersect in neurological disorders. The R25 training program titled &quot;Translational Research in NeuroAIDS and Mental Health (TR-NAMH): An innovative mentoring program to promote diversity in NeuroAIDS Research (R25 MH080661)&quot; at the Johns Hopkins University is a web-based interactive course with the goal to improve the capacity of high quality research by developing mentoring programs for (1) doctoral and postdoctoral candidates and junior faculty from racial and ethnic minorities and (2) non-minority individuals at the same levels, whose research focuses on NeuroAIDS disparity issues such as HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). This web-based interactive course overcomes the limitations of traditional education such as access to expert faculty and financial burden of scientists from racial and ethnic minority groups in the field of NeuroAIDS research and NIP and identifies rich nurturing environments for investigators to support their careers. The TR-NAMH program identifies a cadre of talented students and investigators eager to commit to innovative educational and training sessions in NeuroAIDS and NIP. The interplay between NIP changes precipitated by HIV infection in the brain makes the study of HAND an outstanding way to integrate important concepts from these two fields. The course includes activities besides those related to didactic learning such as research training and long-term mentoring; hence, the newly learned topics in NIP are continually reinforced and implemented in real-time experiences. We describe how NIP is integrated in the TR-NAMH program in the context of HAND.
In myasthenia gravis (MG), the neuromuscular transmission is impaired mainly by auto-antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) or MuSK. In about 5% of the MG patients, however, the auto-antigen is still unknown. We investigated whether these idiopathic MG patients (iMG) have auto-antibodies against ErbB proteins, which influence the AChR density at the NMJ. Our results show reduced mRNA expression levels of ErbB4 in thymus tissue of iMG patients compared to AChR-MG and non-MG patients, but we could not detect anti-ErbB antibodies in sera of iMG patients. Therefore, our results do not support a role for ErbB receptors as auto-antigens in iMG patients.
2D-immunomics may be useful in the identification of autoantigens in neurological autoimmune diseases, but its application may be limited by denaturation of target proteins. Here we compared the capacity of a single or multiple antigens to elicit autoantibodies targeting multiple neural autoantigens by ELISA and 2D-immunomics. We induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) with MBP peptide(89-104), total MBP or spinal cord homogenate. Both techniques showed anti-MBP IgG only after immunization with total MBP. In addition, 2D-immunomics revealed the presence in EAE mice of autoantibodies targeting other neural proteins, some displaying partial sequence homology with MBP. The present finding by 2D-immunomics of multiple neural proteins targeted by autoantibodies generated by a single antigen may help to explain the complex autoimmune response observed in multiple sclerosis.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) pathology is marked by the massive infiltration of myelin-specific T cells into the central nervous system (CNS). During active disease, pro-inflammatory Th1/Th17 cells predominate over immunoregulatory Th2/Treg cells. Here, we show that calpain inhibition downregulates Th1/Th17 inflammatory cytokines and mRNA in MS patient peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) activated with anti-CD3/28 or MBP. Interestingly, calpain inhibition elevated IDO gene expression in MS PBMCs, which was markedly decreased in calpain expressing cells. Functional assay showed that incubation of MS patient PBMCs with calpain inhibitor or recombinant IDO attenuates T cell proliferation. These results suggest that calpain inhibition may attenuate MS pathology and augment the efficacy of standard immunomodulatory agents used to treat this disease.
Systemic administration of the (2)-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol induces expression of IL-1 and its negative regulators, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) and the interleukin-1 type II decoy receptor (IL-1RII) in rat brain. Clenbuterol also increases central expression of the broad spectrum anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 (IL-10) and its downstream signalling molecule, suppressor of cytokine signalling-3 (SOCS-3). Here we examine the impact of combined treatment with clenbuterol (0.5mg/kg) and the glucocorticoid dexamethasone (1mg/kg) on mRNA expression of IL-1 and the IL-1-inducible gene iNOS, on IB mRNA expression and NFB activation, and on mRNA expression of the anti-inflammatory molecules IL-1ra, IL-1RII, IL-10 and SOCS-3 in rat cortex, striatum and hippocampus. Dexamethasone inhibited induction of IL-1 and iNOS mRNA expression by clenbuterol in all three brain regions, without altering its ability to induce IL-1ra mRNA expression. In the case of IL-1RII, dexamethasone further augmented clenbuterol-induced IL-1RII mRNA expression in hippocampus and striatum. These data highlight a mechanistic dissociation between the ability of (2)-adrenoceptor activation to induce expression of IL-1, and its negative regulators IL-1ra and IL-1RII in the brain. Treatment with either dexamethasone or clenbuterol alone independently induced IB mRNA expression, and elicited a concomitant decrease in the DNA binding of NFB in all three brain regions. In the hippocampus and striatum dexamethasone treatment did not influence the ability of clenbuterol to induce IL-10 mRNA expression. In contrast in the cortex, induction of IL-10 and SOCS-3 mRNA expression by clenbuterol administered in combination with dexamethasone was less than induced by clenbuterol alone. Overall these data indicate that combined treatment with dexamethasone and the (2)-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol elicit complementary anti-inflammatory actions in the CNS. Specifically, dexamethasone inhibits expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, whereas clenbuterol has the added benefit of promoting expression of anti-inflammatory molecules including IL-1ra, IL-1RII, IL-10 and SOCS-3.


Treatment with disease-modifying immunomodulators is recommended for patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). However, continuous adherence to treatment with these injected therapies can be challenging. The main objective was to examine the predictors of adherence to glatiramer acetate using a study model derived from Prochaska's transtheoretical model of change. We conducted a 12-week, prospective, observational study. Potential predictors included readiness stage, MS self-efficacy, decisional balance (pros and cons of self-injection), and injection competence. Adults with RRMS, either treatment-nave (TN) or treatment-experienced (TE), taking glatiramer acetate for the first time were studied. Interventions (including injection training) were implemented to promote adherence. The evaluable population included 146 TN patients and 88 TE patients who had previously discontinued beta-interferons. Adherence rates did not differ between TN and TE groups (86% for both at week 12); however, predictors of adherence did. For TN patients, greater functional self-efficacy, higher self-injection competence at baseline, and improvement in self-injection competence over the first month of therapy predicted adherence. For TE patients, lower body mass index and longer duration of MS predicted adherence. Interventions to improve self-efficacy and self-injection competence should be a priority when treating TN patients. Behavioral predictors of adherence in TE patients warrant further study.
Jean-Martin Charcot proposed the radical hypothesis that similar brain processes were responsible for the unexplained neurological symptoms of 'hysteria', now typically diagnosed as 'conversion disorder' or 'dissociative (conversion) disorder', and the temporary effects of hypnosis. While this idea has been largely ignored, recent cognitive neuroscience studies indicate that (i) hypnotisability traits are associated with a tendency to develop dissociative symptoms in the sensorimotor domain; (ii) dissociative symptoms can be modelled with suggestions in highly hypnotisable subjects; and (iii) hypnotic phenomena engage brain processes similar to those seen in patients with symptoms of hysteria. One clear theme to emerge from the findings is that 'symptom' presentation, whether clinically diagnosed or simulated using hypnosis, is associated with increases in prefrontal cortex activity suggesting that intervention by the executive system in both automatic and voluntary cognitive processing is common to both hysteria and hypnosis. Nevertheless, while the recent literature provides some compelling leads into the understanding of these phenomena, the field still lacks well controlled systematically designed studies to give a clear insight into the neurocognitive processes underlying dissociation in both hysteria and hypnosis. The aim of this review is to provide an agenda for future research.

Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration may occur in association with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), but to our knowledge, the co-occurrence of paraneoplastic opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome and LEMS has not been previously reported. A 67-year-old woman presented with a complex partial seizure and evolving ocular flutter, opsoclonus, myoclonus and 'cerebellar' signs, all of which improved spontaneously within 6 weeks. Approximately 8 weeks after symptom onset, the patient became encephalopathic, she had a further complex partial seizure, and she became areflexic with potentiation of deep tendon reflexes. Radiological, bronchoscopic and histological investigations revealed small-cell lung cancer, and neurophysiological investigations confirmed a diagnosis of LEMS. High-titre anti-P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium-channel antibodies were identified in the serum, which increased as the signs of opsoclonus and myoclonus resolved. The encephalopathy and clinical features of LEMS responded dramatically to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Spontaneous improvement of paraneoplastic opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome may occur, and this syndrome may occur in association with LEMS. Antivoltage-gated calcium-channel antibodies are not implicated in the pathogenesis of paraneoplastic opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome.
Approximately 30% of all primary CNS tumors are meningiomas. Depending on histological type, meningiomas can recur as follows: benign--with five-year recurrence of 5%, atypical--recurrence approximately 40%, and anaplastic with recurrence of 50-80%. In an attempt to understand the molecular mechanism of meningioma recurrence we investigated the N-Myc downstream-regulated gene 2 (NDRG2), which has recently been described as important in suppressing cellular carcinogenesis in different types of cancer. The objective of the study was to investigate NDRG2 gene expression at the mRNA level in primary and recurrent meningiomas as a potential marker of tumor aggressiveness, malignancy, and recurrence. Primary and recurrent meningiomas of WHO grades I, II, and III from 35 patients operated on between 2005 and 2008 year at the Department of Neurosurgery of Kaunas Medical University Hospital (Lithuania) were studied. Using the qRT-PCR method we measured NDRG2 gene expression at the mRNA level in primary (n = 24) and recurrent (n = 11) meningiomas. Statistically significant differences in NDRG2 gene expression level were observed between primary and recurrent meningioma groups (P &lt; 0.05) and between benign (WHO grade I) and atypical (WHO grade II) meningiomas (P &lt; 0.05). No statistically significant differences were observed (P &gt; 0.05) among histological subtypes of benign (WHO grade I) meningiomas: fibrous, meningothelial, and transitional. In accordance with our results, reduction of NDRG2 gene expression at the mRNA level could help to explain malignant progression and predisposition to recurrence in meningiomas.
The most effective chemotherapeutic for glioblastoma (GBM) is the DNA alkylating agent temozolomide (TMZ). In a recent study by Hegi et al. benefit from TMZ was significantly associated with methylation of the promoter of the O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene; however, the correlation was imperfect. Some patients with methylated tumors were short survivors and others with unmethylated tumors were long survivors. These exceptions have raised the possibility that TMZ response might be influenced by non-MGMT mechanisms. The effect of p53 status on response to TMZ was explored in traditional glioma cell lines (U87MG, U251MG, U343MG, U373MG, SF767, LN443 and LNZ308) and brain tumor initiating cells (BTICs--BT012, BT025, BT042, BT048, BT060 and BT069) in two ways: (1) inhibition of p53 by RNAi and (2) sensitivity in relation to intrinsic p53 status, either wild-type or mutant. Traditional glioma cell lines that did not express a functional p53 were significantly more sensitive to TMZ than cell lines with functionally intact wild-type p53 expression. Altered p53 expression or function had only minor effects on TMZ sensitivity in BTICs and tended to decrease sensitivity to TMZ. RNAi specific for p53 had little effect on sensitivity in p53 null glioma cells. Absence of a functional p53 increases TMZ sensitivity in traditional glioma cell lines, an effect that is independent of MGMT status, and not seen in BTICs. P53 status may influence response to TMZ in differentiated cells in a GBM with a negligible affect on its initiating cells.
We describe the clinical characteristics of 3 siblings from 1 family with congenital myasthenic syndrome due to homozygous mutations of the gene coding for the epsilon subunit of the acetylcholine receptor (CHRNE). Onset of symptoms occurred in the first few months of life with ptosis, restricted ocular motility, mild proximal weakness, and difficulty swallowing. Multiple hospital admissions were required due to recurrent pulmonary infections. There was no decremental conduction on repetitive nerve stimulation, but jitter was increased on single fiber electromyographic. Since early childhood, our patients have done well without pulmonary or bulbar symptoms and with partial improvement on pyridostigmine therapy. Response of ptosis to diagnostic ice pack test was striking. Although these siblings have a clinical history and examination findings typical of homozygous CHRNE mutations, the clinical presentation of congenital myasthenia subtypes is variable, and accurate genotyping is essential in choosing the appropriate treatment.
Most vertebrates are capable of two forms of locomotion, forward and backward, strongly differing in the patterns of motor coordination. Basic mechanisms generating these patterns are located in the spinal cord; they are activated and regulated by supraspinal commands. In the lamprey, these commands are transmitted by reticulospinal (RS) neurons. The aim of this study was to reveal groups of RS neurons controlling different aspects of forward (FS) and backward (BS) swimming in the lamprey. Activity of individual larger RS neurons in intact lampreys was recorded during FS and BS by chronically implanted electrodes. It was found that among the neurons activated during locomotion, 27% were active only during FS, 3% only during BS, and 70% during both FS and BS. In a portion of RS neurons, their mean firing frequency was correlated with frequency of body undulations during FS (8%), during BS (34%), or during both FS and BS (22%), suggesting their involvement in control of locomotion intensity. RS activity was phasically modulated by the locomotor rhythm during FS (20% of neurons), during BS (29%), or during both FS and BS (16%). The majority of RS neurons responding to vestibular stimulation (and presumably involved in control of body orientation) were active mainly during FS. This explains the absence of stabilization of the body orientation observed during BS. We discuss possible functions of different groups of RS neurons, i.e., activation of the spinal locomotor CPG, inversion of the direction of propagation of locomotor waves, and postural control.
Postinhibitory rebound (PIR) can play a significant role for producing stable rhythmic motor patterns, like locomotion, by contributing to burst initiation following the phase of inhibition, and PIR may also be a target for modulatory systems acting on the network. The current aim was to explore the PIR in one type of interneuron in the lamprey locomotor network and its dependence on low voltage-activated (LVA) calcium channels, as well as its modulation by 5-HT and dopamine. PIR responses in commissural interneurons, mediating reciprocal inhibition and left-right alternation in the network, were significantly larger than in motoneurons. The L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine reduced PIR amplitude by  50%, whereas the L-channel agonist BAY K 8644 enhanced PIR amplitude, suggesting that LVA calcium channels of the L-subtype (Ca(V)1.3) participate in the PIR response. The remainder of the response was blocked by nickel, indicating that T-type (Ca(V)3) LVA calcium channels also contribute. No evidence was obtained for the involvement of a hyperpolarization-activated current. Furthermore, 5-HT, acting via 5-HT(1A) receptors, reduced PIR, as did dopamine, acting via D(2) receptors. Coapplication of nimodipine caused no further PIR reduction, indicating that these modulators target Ca(V)1.3 channels specifically. These results suggest that PIR may play a prominent role in the generation of alternating network activity and that the Ca(V)1.3 and Ca(V)3 subtypes of LVA calcium channels together underlie the PIR response. 5-HT and dopamine both target PIR via Ca(V)1.3 channels, which may contribute significantly to their modulatory influence on locomotor network activity.
Layer V principal neurons of the medial entorhinal cortex receive the main hippocampal output and relay processed information to the neocortex. Despite the fundamental role hypothesized for these neurons in memory replay and consolidation, their dendritic features are largely unknown. High-speed confocal and two-photon Ca(2+) imaging coupled with somatic whole cell patch-clamp recordings were used to investigate spike back-propagation in these neurons. The Ca(2+) transient associated with a single back-propagating action potential was considerably smaller at distal dendritic locations (&gt;200 m from the soma) compared with proximal ones. Perfusion of Ba(2+) (150 M) or 4-aminopyridine (2 mM) to block A-type K(+) currents significantly increased the amplitude of the distal, but not proximal, Ca(2+) transients, which is strong evidence for an increased density of these channels at distal dendritic locations. In addition, the Ca(2+) transients decreased with each subsequent spike in a 20-Hz train; this activity-dependent decrease was also more prominent at more distal locations and was attenuated by the perfusion of the protein kinase C activator phorbol-di-acetate. These data are consistent with a phosphorylation-dependent control of back-propagation during trains of action potentials, attributable mainly to an increase in the time constant of recovery from voltage-dependent inactivation of dendritic Na(+) channels. In summary, dendritic Na(+) and A-type K(+) channels control spike back-propagation in layer V entorhinal neurons. Because the activity of these channels is highly modulated, the extent of the dendritic Ca(2+) influx is as well, with important functional implications for dendritic integration and associative synaptic plasticity.
Previously, we found that rat hippocampal CA3 interneurons become hyperactive with increasing concentrations of extracellular K(+) up to 10 mM. However, it is unclear how this enhanced interneuronal activity affects pyramidal neurons. Here we voltage-clamped rat hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons in vitro at 0 mV to isolate -aminobutyric acid (GABA)-activated inhibitory post-synaptic currents (IPSCs) and measured these in artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) and with 10 mM K(+) bath perfusion. In aCSF, small IPSCs were present with amplitudes of 0.053  0.007 nA and a frequency of 0.27  0.14 Hz. With 10 mM K(+) perfusion, IPSCs increased greatly in frequency and amplitude, culminating in surge events with peak amplitudes of 0.56  0.08 nA, that appeared and disappeared cyclically with durations lasting 2.02  0.37 min repeatedly, up to 10 times over a 30-min bath perfusion of elevated K(+). These large IPSCs were GABA(A)-receptor mediated and did not involve significant desensitization of this receptor. Perfusion of a GABA transporter inhibitor (NO-711), glutamate receptor inhibitors CNQX and APV, or a gap junctional blocker (carbenoxolone) prevented the resurgence of large IPSCs. Pressure ejected sucrose resulted in the abolishment of subsequent surges. No elevated K(+)-mediated surges were observed in CA3 interneurons from the stratum oriens layer. In conclusion, these cyclic large IPSC events observable in CA3 pyramidal neurons in 10 mM KCl may be due to transient GABA depletion from continuously active interneuronal afferents.
Gap junctions constitute the only form of synaptic communication between neurons in the inferior olive (IO), which gives rise to the climbing fibers innervating the cerebellar cortex. Although its exact functional role remains undetermined, electrical coupling was shown to be necessary for the transient formation of functional compartments of IO neurons and to underlie the precise timing of climbing fibers required for cerebellar learning. So far, most functional considerations assume the existence of a network of permanently and homogeneously coupled IO neurons. Contrasting this notion, our results indicate that coupling within the IO is highly variable. By combining tracer-coupling analysis and paired electrophysiological recordings, we found that individual IO neurons could be coupled to a highly variable number of neighboring neurons. Furthermore, a given neuron could be coupled at remarkably different strengths with each of its partners. Freeze-fracture analysis of IO glomeruli revealed the close proximity of glutamatergic postsynaptic densities to connexin 36-containing gap junctions, at distances comparable to separations between chemical transmitting domains and gap junctions in goldfish mixed contacts, where electrical coupling was shown to be modulated by the activity of glutamatergic synapses. On the basis of structural and molecular similarities with goldfish mixed synapses, we speculate that, rather than being hardwired, variations in coupling could result from glomerulus-specific long-term modulation of gap junctions. This striking heterogeneity of coupling might act to finely influence the synchronization of IO neurons, adding an unexpected degree of complexity to olivary networks.
Several mechanisms have been proposed that control the amount of plasticity in neuronal circuits and guarantee dynamic stability of neuronal networks. Homeostatic plasticity suggests that the ease with which a synaptic connection is facilitated/suppressed depends on the previous amount of network activity. We describe how such homeostatic-like interactions depend on the time interval between two conditioning protocols and on the duration of the preconditioning protocol. We used transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to produce short-lasting plasticity in the motor cortex of healthy humans. In the main experiment, we compared the aftereffect of a single 5-min session of anodal or cathodal tDCS with the effect of a 5-min tDCS session preceded by an identical 5-min conditioning session administered 30, 3, or 0 min beforehand. Five-minute anodal tDCS increases excitability for about 5 min. The same duration of cathodal tDCS reduces excitability. Increasing the duration of tDCS to 10 min prolongs the duration of the effects. If two 5-min periods of tDCS are applied with a 30-min break between them, the effect of the second period of tDCS is identical to that of 5-min stimulation alone. If the break is only 3 min, then the second session has the opposite effect to 5-min tDCS given alone. Control experiments show that these shifts in the direction of plasticity evolve during the 10 min after the first tDCS session and depend on the duration of the first tDCS but not on intracortical inhibition and facilitation. The results are compatible with a time-dependent &quot;homeostatic-like&quot; rule governing the response of the human motor cortex to plasticity probing protocols.
Transforming growth factor- (TGF-), a multifunctional cytokine, plays a crucial role in wound healing in the damaged central nervous system. To examine effects of the TGF- signaling inhibition on formation of scar tissue and axonal regeneration, the small molecule inhibitor of type I TGF- receptor kinase LY-364947 was continuously infused in the lesion site of mouse brain after a unilateral transection of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. At 2 weeks after injury, the fibrotic scar comprising extracellular matrix molecules including fibronectin, type IV collagen, and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans was formed in the lesion center, and reactive astrocytes were increased around the fibrotic scar. In the brain injured and infused with LY-364947, fibrotic scar formation was suppressed and decreased numbers of reactive astrocytes occupied the lesion site. Although leukocytes and serum IgG were observed within the fibrotic scar in the injured brain, they were almost absent in the injured and LY-364947-treated brain. At 2 weeks after injury, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive fibers barely extended beyond the fibrotic scar in the injured brain, but numerous TH-immunoreactive fibers regenerated over the lesion site in the LY-364947-treated brain. These results indicate that inhibition of TGF- signaling suppresses formation of the fibrotic scar and creates a permissive environment for axonal regeneration.


Few are familiar with the neurological contributions of the German pathologist Theodor Langhans. Even fewer are aware of his significant and early contributions to the study of what is now known as the Chiari I malformation. In at least 4 cases, Langhans described the association between tonsillar ectopia and syringomyelia. Moreover, this early pioneer speculated that there was a cause and effect with hindbrain herniation resulting in improper flow at the craniocervical junction and consequent development of syringomyelia. These cases were reported prior to Hans Chiari's descriptions, and Langhans' theory of impeded foramen magnum flow as a cause of syringomyelia was novel and preceded the current understanding of this mechanism by almost a century. The authors discuss the life of Langhans and translate excerpts from his 1881 work regarding tonsillar ectopia and syringomyelia.

Symptoms persisting beyond the acute phase (&gt;2 months) after a mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) are often reported, but their origin remains controversial. Some investigators evoke dysfunctional cerebral mechanisms, while others ascribe them to the psychological consequences of the injury. We address this controversy by exploring possible cerebral dysfunction with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and event-related potentials (ERP) in a group of patients during the post-acute phase. Fourteen MTBI symptomatic patients (5.72.9 months post-injury) were tested with fMRI and ERP using a visual externally ordered working memory task, and were compared with 23 control subjects. Attenuated blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal changes in the left and right mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (mid-DLPFC), the putamen, the body of the caudate nucleus, and the right thalamus were found in the MTBI group compared with the control group. Moreover, symptom severity and BOLD signal changes were correlated: patients with more severe symptoms had lower BOLD signal changes in the right mid-DLPFC. For ERP, a grouptask interaction was observed for N350 amplitude. A larger amplitude for the working memory task than for the control task was found in control subjects, but not in MTBI subjects, who had weak amplitudes for both tasks. This study confirms that persistent symptoms after MTBI cannot be uniquely explained by psychological factors, such as depression and/or malingering, and indicates that they can be associated with cerebral dysfunction. ERP reveals decreased amplitude of the N350 component, while fMRI demonstrates that the more severe the symptoms, the lower the BOLD signal changes in the mid-DLPFC.
Age is a consistent predictor of poor outcome following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Although the elderly population has one of the highest rates of TBI-related hospitalization and death, few preclinical studies have attempted to model and treat TBI in the aged population. Recent studies have indicated that nicotinamide (NAM), a soluble B-group vitamin, improved functional recovery in experimental models of TBI in young animals. The purpose of the present study was to examine the preclinical efficacy of NAM in middle-aged rats. Groups of middle-aged (14-month-old) rats were assigned to NAM (500mg/kg or 50mg/kg) or saline alone (1mL/kg) treatment conditions, and received unilateral cortical contusion injuries (CCI) and injections at 1h and 24h following injury. The animals were tested on a variety of tasks to assess vestibulomotor (tapered beam) and cognitive performance (reference and working memory in the Morris water maze), and were evaluated for lesion size, blood-brain barrier compromise, astrocytic activation, and edema formation. In summary, the preclinical efficacy of NAM as a treatment following CCI in middle-aged rats differs from that previously documented in younger rats; while treatment with 50mg/kg NAM appeared to have no effect, the 500-mg/kg dose worsened performance in middle-aged animals. Histological indicators demonstrated more nuanced group differences, indicating that NAM may positively impact some of the cellular cascades following injury, but were not substantial enough to improve functional recovery. These findings emphasize the need to examine potential treatments for TBI utilizing non-standard populations, and may explain why so many treatments have failed in clinical trials.



There is a scarcity of validated hand performance tests with proven reliability for quantifying functional deficits in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). The Dellon-modified Moberg pick-up test (DMMPUT), composed of commonly used daily objects, is potentially well suited for that purpose. This study was designed to evaluate the test-retest reliability and discriminative validity of the DMMPUT in CTS patients. We compared 162 CTS patients with 116 age-matched controls. CTS severity was determined based on electrophysiological parameters and Levine's Self-Assessment Questionnaire. The mean time to complete each subset of the DMMPUT by the CTS patients was compared with that by the healthy subjects. Test-retest reliability was examined in 46 CTS patients. Discriminative validity was demonstrated through a significant difference in test completion time between the CTS subjects and their age-matched controls. With few exceptions, the test scores declined with increasing severity of electrophysiological abnormalities and subjective symptom severity. Test-retest reliability of the DMMPUT was high with an intra-class correlation coefficient of 0.91. The DMMPUT has discriminative validity and high test-retest reliability in patients with CTS. It can be a useful standardized outcome measure to gauge disease severity.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease is the commonest inherited neuromuscular disorder affecting at least 1 in 2,500. Over the last two decades, there have been rapid advances in understanding the molecular basis for many forms of CMT with more than 30 causative genes now described. This has made obtaining an accurate genetic diagnosis possible but at times challenging for clinicians. This review aims to provide a simple, pragmatic approach to diagnosing CMT from a clinician's perspective.
The Psychodynamic Diagnostic Manual provides a model of the individual that emphasizes the prominence of unconscious subjective experience in shaping personality and psychopathology. Yet, modern psychiatry and psychology have avoided reference to and assessment of such processes. In this article, I review evidence from the cognitive neuroscience literature that supports the relationship of unconscious subjective experience to personality and behavior. Suggestions are made for how these findings should affect clinical assessment practice and how research methodology could be employed to further evaluate and enhance current assessment practice.
Astrocytes in the barrel cortex respond with a transient Ca2+ increase to neuronal stimulation and this response is restricted to the stimulated barrel field. In the present study we suppressed the astrocyte response by dialysing these cells with the Ca2+ chelator BAPTA. Electrical stimulation triggered a depolarization in stellate or pyramidal regular spiking' neurons from cortex layer 4 and 2/3 and this response was augmented in amplitude and duration after astrocytes were dialysed with BAPTA. Combined blockade of GABAA and GABAB receptors mimicked the effect of BAPTA dialysis, while glutamate receptor blockers had no effect. Moreover, the frequency of spontaneous postsynaptic currents was increased after BAPTA dialysis. Outside the range of BAPTA dialysis astrocytes responded with a Ca2+ increase, but in contrast to control, the response was no longer restricted to one barrel field. Our findings indicate that astrocytes control neuronal inhibition in the barrel cortex.
The study objective was to investigate the effects of melatonin on obesity and obesity-associated systolic hypertension and dyslipidemia in young male Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats, an experimental model of the metabolic syndrome. ZDF rats (n=30) and lean littermates (ZL) (n=30) were used. At 6wk of age, both lean and fatty animals were subdivided into three groups (n=10): naive (N), vehicle-treated (V), and melatonin-treated (M) (10mg/kg/day) for 6wk. Vehicle and melatonin were added to the drinking water. Melatonin reduced mean weight gain (512/100g BW) versus N-ZDF group (583, P&lt;0.05) without food intake differences. M-ZDF rats showed an apparent reduction in systolic hypertension that proved not to be statistically significant, and a significant improvement in dyslipidemia, with a reduction in hypertriglyceridemia from 58040 to 420.640.9mg/dL (P&lt;0.01). Melatonin raised high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol in ZDF (from 81.64.9 to 103.14.5mg/dL, P&lt;0.01) and ZL rats (from 62.84.8 to 73.54.8mg/dL, P&lt;0.05) and significantly reduced low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in ZDF rats from 5.200.4 to 4.140.3mg/dL (P&lt;0.05) but had no effect on total cholesterol levels. To our knowledge, this is the first evidence of a positive effect of melatonin on overweight and lipid pattern of obese Zucker diabetic rats, supporting the proposition that melatonin administration may ameliorate overweight and lipid metabolism in humans. Because these benefits occurred in youth, before advanced metabolic and vascular complications, melatonin might help to prevent cardiovascular disease associated with obesity and dyslipidemia.
Melatonin is an indoleamine secreted by the pineal gland as well as a plant-derived product, and resveratrol (RSV) is a naturally occurring polyphenol synthesized by a variety of plant species; both molecules act as a neuroprotector and antioxidant. Recent studies have demonstrated that RSV reduced the incidence of Alzheimer's disease and stroke, while melatonin supplementation was found to reduce the progression of the cognitive impairment in AD. The heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is an inducible and redox-regulated enzyme that provides tissue-specific antioxidant effects. We assessed whether the co-administration of melatonin and RSV shows synergistic effects in terms of their neuroprotective properties through HO-1. RSV significantly increased the expression levels of HO-1 protein in a concentration-dependent manner both in primary cortical neurons and in astrocytes, while melatonin per se did not. Melatonin+RSV showed a synergistic increase in the expression levels of HO-1 protein but not in the HO-1 mRNA level compared to either melatonin or RSV alone, which is mediated by the activation of PI3K-Akt pathway. Treatment of melatonin+RSV significantly attenuated the neurotoxicity induced by H(2) O(2) in primary cortical neurons and also in organotypic hippocampal slice culture. The blockade of HO-1 induction by shRNA attenuated HO-1 induction by melatonin+RSV and hindered the neuroprotective effects against oxidative stress induced by H(2) O(2) . The treatment of MG132+RSV mimicked the effects of melatonin+RSV, and melatonin+RSV inhibited ubiquitination of HO-1. These data suggest that melatonin potentiates the neuroprotective effect of RSV against oxidative injury, by enhancing HO-1 induction through inhibiting ubiquitination-dependent proteasome pathway, which may provide an effective means to treat neurodegenerative disorders.

In the accompanying paper we describe how MRK-409 unexpectedly produced sedation in man at relatively low levels of GABA(A) receptor occupancy (10%). Since it was not clear whether this sedation was mediated via the 2/3 or 1 GABA(A) subtype(s), we characterized the properties of TPA023B, a high-affinity imidazotriazine which, like MRK-409, has partial agonist efficacy at the 2 and 3 subtype but is an antagonist at the 1 subtype, at which MRK-409 has weak partial agonism. TPA023B gave dose- and time-dependent occupancy of rat brain GABA(A) receptors as measured using an in vivo [(3)H]flumazenil binding assay, with 50% occupancy corresponding to a respective dose and plasma drug concentration of 0.09 mg/kg and 19 ng/mL, the latter of which was similar to that observed in mice (25 ng/mL) and comparable to values obtained in baboon and man using [(11)C]flumazenil PET (10 and 5.8 ng/mL, respectively). TPA023B was anxiolytic in rodent and primate (squirrel monkey) models of anxiety (elevated plus maze, fear-potentiated startle, conditioned suppression of drinking, conditioned emotional response) yet had no significant effects in rodent or primate assays of ataxia and/or myorelaxation (rotarod, chain-pulling, lever pressing), up to doses (10 mg/kg) corresponding to occupancy of greater than 99%. In man, TPA023B was well tolerated at a dose (1.5 mg) that produced occupancy of &gt;50%, suggesting that the sedation previously seen with MRK-409 is due to the partial agonist efficacy of that compound at the 1 subtype, and highlighting the importance of antagonist efficacy at this particular GABA(A) receptor population for avoiding sedation in man.
MRK-409 binds to 1-, 2-, 3- and 5-containing human recombinant GABA(A) receptors with comparable high affinity (0.21-0.40 nM). However, MRK-409 has greater agonist efficacy at the 3 compared with 1 subtypes (respective efficacies relative to the full agonist chlordiazepoxide of 0.45 and 0.18). This compound readily penetrates the brain in rats and occupies the benzodiazepine site of GABA(A) receptors, measured using an in vivo [(3)H]flumazenil binding assay, with an Occ(50) of 2.2 mg/kg p.o. and a corresponding plasma EC(50) of 115 ng/mL. Behaviourally, the 3-preferring agonist efficacy profile of MRK-409 produced anxiolytic-like activity in rodent and primate unconditioned and conditioned models of anxiety with minimum effective doses corresponding to occupancies, depending on the particular model, ranging from 35% to 65% yet there were minimal overt signs of sedation at occupancies greater than 90%. In humans, however, safety and tolerability studies showed that there was pronounced sedation at a dose of 2 mg, resulting in a maximal tolerated dose of 1 mg. This 2 mg dose corresponded to a C(max) plasma concentration of 28 ng/mL, which, based on the rodent plasma EC(50) for occupancy of 115 ng/mL, suggested that sedation in humans occurs at low levels of occupancy. This was confirmed in human positron emission tomography studies, in which [(11)C]flumazenil uptake following a single dose of 1 mg MRK-409 was comparable to that of placebo, indicating that occupancy of GABA(A) receptor benzodiazepine binding sites by MRK-409 was below the limits of detection (i.e. &lt;10%). Taken together, these data show that MRK-409 causes sedation in humans at a dose (2 mg) corresponding to levels of occupancy considerably less than those predicted from rodent models to be required for anxiolytic efficacy (35-65%). Thus, the preclinical non-sedating anxiolytic profile of MRK-409 did not translate into humans and further development of this compound was halted.
Progestins may have effects to reduce depressive behavior, in part through actions of its metabolite, 5-pregnan-3-ol-20-one (3,5-THP) at GABA(A) receptors, rather than through intracellular progestin receptors. In this study, we examined the effects of progesterone (10 mg/kg, subcutaneous injection) versus vehicle control (propylene glycol) on the depressive behavior of young and aged mice in the tail suspension test. In Experiment 1, we first characterized progesterone's anti-depressant effects by utilizing young (4-6-month-old) intact or ovariectomized female, and intact or gonadectomized male, C57BL/6 mice. Young female mice showed more depressive behavior than the young male mice. Compared with vehicle administration, progesterone reduced depressive behavior of ovariectomized female, but not male or intact female mice. In Experiment 2, mice were aged (20-24-month-old) intact wild type or progestin receptor knockout mice. Progestin receptor knockout mice showed less depressive behavior than wild type mice. Administration of progesterone to wild type and progestin receptor knockout mice reduced depressive behavior. Together, these data suggest that progesterone can decrease depressive behavior of young adult ovariectomized female, aged wild type and progestin receptor knockout mice. Thus, progesterone's effect to reduce depressive behavior of aged mice may not require actions at the intracellular progestin receptors.
Functional neurological symptoms refer to neurological symptoms that are not explained by disease. They may also be called psychogenic, non-organic, somatoform, dissociative or conversion symptoms. The most common functional neurological symptoms are non-epileptic attacks and functional weakness. These are common in neurology and general medical practice, especially in emergency situations, where they can be mistaken for epilepsy or stroke. Many studies have shown that these symptoms often persist, are associated with distress and disability and, in the right hands, have a low rate of misdiagnosis. Physicians are often uncertain how to approach patients with these problems. Are patients making up the symptoms? How can the diagnosis be made confidently? What is the best way to explain the diagnosis to the patient? Does treatment ever help? This review takes readers through these questions with practical tips for avoiding common pitfalls, both in diagnosis and management. There is no good evidence that these symptoms are any more 'made up' than irritable bowel symptoms or chronic pain. The diagnosis should usually be made by a neurologist on the basis of positive signs of inconsistency such as Hoover's sign or the typical features of a non-epileptic attack. A 'functional' model of the symptoms is useful both in thinking about the problem and when explaining the symptoms to the patient. There are many useful steps in management that do not require a detailed understanding of aetiology in an individual patient.


This article reviews empirical and theoretical contributions to a multidisciplinary understanding of peer influence processes in adolescence over the past decade. Five themes of peer influence research from this decade were identified, including a broadening of the range of behaviors for which peer influence occurs, distinguishing the sources of influence, probing the conditions under which influence is amplified/attenuated (moderators), testing theoretically based models of peer influence processes (mechanisms), and preliminary exploration of behavioral neuroscience perspectives on peer influence. This review highlights advances in each of these areas, underscores gaps in current knowledge of peer influence processes, and outlines important challenges for future research.
Neurological manifestation may complicate Takayasu arteritis (TA). A 23-year-old girl with sudden onset of vision loss was admitted to hospital. Her brain MRI showed abnormal T2-signal hyperintensity and visual evoked potential revealed prolonged P100 latency. Consequently, optic neuritis was diagnosed. A review on history of dizziness, falling, and weak pulses of upper extremities led to more investigation. Angiography revealed a total occlusion of right and left carotids, left vertebral arteries, aneurismal dilatation of innominate artery and critical stenosis of right vertebral artery. Following diagnosis of TA, stenting of right vertebral artery was done, but she passed away because of subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Psychostimulant dependence is characterized by dopamine deficit, which could be reversed with indirect dopamine agonists (IDAs). A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized, parallel-group, placebo-controlled clinical trials assessing the efficacy of IDAs in psychostimulant-dependent individuals were conducted. The study outcomes were psychostimulant abstinence, assessed by means of urinalysis, and retention in treatment. Risk of bias was determined using a Cochrane Collaboration instrument. Twenty-nine studies fulfilled the inclusion criteria, involving 2,467 participants. Compared with placebo, IDAs increased psychostimulant abstinence (standardized mean difference = 0.20; 95% confidence interval, 0.06-0.35; p = .005) but did not increase retention in treatment. Efficacy was larger in comorbid heroin-dependent individuals and was positively related with treatment length. No study was considered fully free of bias. IDAs appear to be efficacious for reducing psychostimulant use but did not improve retention. Efforts should be undertaken to reduce the risk of bias of clinical trials with psychostimulant-dependent individuals.


Central nervous system (CNS) infections and autoimmune inflammatory disorders are often associated with retention of antibody-secreting cells (ASC). Although beneficial or detrimental contributions of ASC to CNS diseases remain to be defined, virus-specific ASC are crucial in controlling persistent CNS infection following coronavirus-induced encephalomyelitis. This report characterizes expression kinetics of factors associated with ASC homing, differentiation, and survival in the spinal cord, the prominent site of coronavirus persistence. Infection induced a vast, gamma interferon (IFN-)-dependent, prolonged increase in chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9 (CXCL9), CXCL10, and CXCL11 mRNA, supporting a role for chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 3 (CXCR3)-mediated ASC recruitment. Similarly, CD4 T cell-secreted interleukin-21, a critical regulator of both peripheral activated B cells and CD8 T cells, was sustained during viral persistence. The ASC survival factors B cell-activating factor of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family (BAFF) and a proliferating-inducing ligand (APRIL) were also significantly elevated in the infected CNS, albeit delayed relative to the chemokines. Unlike IFN--dependent BAFF upregulation, APRIL induction was IFN- independent. Moreover, both APRIL and BAFF were predominantly localized to astrocytes. Last, the expression kinetics of the APRIL and BAFF receptors coincided with CNS accumulation of ASC. Therefore, the factors associated with ASC migration, differentiation, and survival are all induced during acute viral encephalomyelitis, prior to ASC accumulation in the CNS. Importantly, the CNS expression kinetics implicate rapid establishment, and subsequent maintenance, of an environment capable of supporting differentiation and survival of protective antiviral ASC, recruited as plasmablasts from lymphoid organs.
Assessment of the voice for supporting classifications of central nervous system (CNS) impairment requires a different practical, methodological, and statistical framework compared with assessment of the voice to guide decisions about change in the CNS. In experimental terms, an understanding of the stability and sensitivity to change of an assessment protocol is required to guide decisions about CNS change. Five experiments (N = 70) were conducted using a set of commonly used stimuli (eg, sustained vowel, reading, extemporaneous speech) and easily acquired measures (eg, f-f, percent pause). Stability of these measures was examined through their repeated application in healthy adults over brief and intermediate retest intervals (ie, 30 seconds, 2 hours, and 1 week). Those measures found to be stable were then challenged using an experimental model that reliably changes voice acoustic properties (ie, the Lombard effect). Finally, adults with an established CNS-related motor speech disorder (dysarthria) were compared with healthy controls. Of the 61 acoustic variables studied, 36 showed good stability over all three stability experiments (eg, number of pauses, total speech time, speech rate, f-f. Of the measures with good stability, a number of frequency measures showed a change in response to increased vocal effort resulting from the Lombard effect challenge. Furthermore, several timing measures significantly separated the control and motor speech impairment groups. Measures with high levels of stability within healthy adults, and those that show sensitivity to change and impairment may prove effective for monitoring changes in CNS functioning.



All stroke patients admitted to Banjaluka Clinical Centre during one year were evaluated by the standard protocol during the hospitalization and three months after the stroke. It included clinical, functional and neuropsychological examination and neuroimaging. Dementia was diagnosed according to the criteria of National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke-Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences. Demographic and clinical variables were examined. After the exclusion of the patients who died (n = 139) and those who refused to be interviewed during the 3-month follow up (n = 52) and those with pre-stroke dementia (n = 22), a total of 273 (58.8%) patients underwent neuropsychological examination 3 months after the stroke. Forty-nine (19.52%) of them met the criteria for vascular dementia. The predictors of vascular dementia were age, atrial fibrillation, cognitive and functional impairment on admission and functional outcome, subcortical lacunar infarctions, leukoaraiosis, multiple and bilateral brain lesions. Dementia is frequent after stroke and it cannot be determined by a single factor. A combination of several factors increases the critical threshold for cognitive decline.
The growing influence of neurosciences and behaviour theories is involved in the transformation of the representations and care services for behaviour problems in childhood. Using such new orientations, the French associations of parents with hyperactive children fight for the recognition of the neurocognitive origin of their child's condition and against professionals' discourse which can make parents feel guilty. By helping families in their search for a diagnosis and promoting care treatments including the prescription of psycho-stimulating drugs, the association can be seen as a key element of a system where researches/practitioners, drug companies and activists mutually legitimate their actions.
Evidence from the literature indicates that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs in schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders. To produce an animal model that simulates psychotic symptoms analogous to those seen in schizophrenic patients, sub-anesthetic doses of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists (such as ketamine) have been used. The aim of this study was to evaluate behavioral changes and mitochondrial dysfunction in rats administered ketamine for 7 consecutive days. Behavioral evaluation was performed using an activity monitor 1, 3 and 6 h after the last injection. The activities of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I, II, I-III and IV in multiple brain regions (prefrontal cortex, striatum and hippocampus) were also evaluated. Our results showed that hyperlocomotion occurred in the ketamine group 1 and 3 h after the last injection. Stereotypic movements were elevated only when animals were evaluated 1 h after receiving ketamine. In addition, we found that ketamine administration affects the respiratory chain, altering the activity of respiratory chain complexes in the striatum and hippocampus after 1 h, those in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus after 3 h and those in the prefrontal cortex and striatum 6 h after the last administration of ketamine. These findings suggest that ketamine alters the behavior of rats and changes the activity of respiratory chain complexes in multiple brain regions at different time points.
The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is an emerging tool for investigating the molecular pathways that underpin several human neurodegenerative disorders associated with protein misfolding. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating adult onset neurodegenerative disease primarily affecting motor neurons. The protein TDP-43 has recently been demonstrated to play an important role in the disease, however, the mechanisms by which TDP-43 contributes to pathogenesis are unclear. To explore the mechanistic details that result in aberrant accumulation of TDP-43 and to discover potential strategies for therapeutic intervention, we employed a yeast TDP-43 proteinopathy model system. These studies allowed us to determine the regions of TDP-43 required for aggregation and toxicity and to define the effects of ALS-linked mutant forms of TDP-43. We have also been able to harness the power of yeast genetics to identify potent modifiers of TDP-43 toxicity using high-throughput yeast genetic screens. Here, we describe the methods and approaches that we have used in order to gain insight into TDP-43 biology and its role in disease. These approaches are readily adaptable to other neurodegenerative disease proteins.
This case report presents a solid variant of keratocystic odontogenic tumour (KCOT), a benign uni- or multicystic intraosseous tumour of odontogenic origin, with a characteristic lining of parakeratinized stratified squamous epithelium and potential inflammatory infiltrate. A 52-year old female patient discovered occasionally, in an orthopantomography done for other reasons, the presence of a radiolucent lesion. A 2-3 cm wide lesion with well-demarcated margins was present in the premolar region of the left hemimandible. Under local anesthesia a biopsy was done and the diagnosis of odontogenic keratocyst was confirmed by histopathological examination. Under general anesthesia, the lesion was easily shelled-out and completely enucleated. The lesion had not recurred after a 6 years follow-up. The occurrence of a solid variant of KCOT could strengthen the hypothesis of a neoplastic rather than cystic nature of this lesion.
Targeting of proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) usually requires N-terminal signal peptides (SP) of approximately 22 amino acids in length. However, a substantial number of proteins contain exceptionally long SPs of 40 amino acids and more, an example being protein shrew-1/AJAP1. Using shrew-1's SP as example, the NtraC model has been developed by dissecting long SPs into two functionally distinct subdomains (&quot;N&quot; and &quot;C&quot;) separated by a -turn rich transition area (&quot;tra&quot;). Further proteins have been identified by computational analysis complying with the NtraC model. Here we used the SPs of two of these proteins, DCBLD2 and RGMa (including three isoforms), to show that the NtraC model applies to a growing group of SPs. We demonstrate that the full-length SPs of RGMa and DCBLD2 are functional and furthermore that the C-domains are sufficient and essential for ER targeting, whereas the N-domains are dispensable. Thus, the N-domains are available for additional functions.
TDP-43, or TAR DNA-binding protein 43, is a pathological marker of a spectrum of neurodegenerative disorders, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions. TDP-43 is an RNA/DNA-binding protein implicated in transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation. Recent work also suggests that TDP-43 associates with cytoplasmic stress granules, which are transient structures that form in response to stress. In this study, we establish sorbitol as a novel physiological stressor that directs TDP-43 to stress granules in Hek293T cells and primary cultured glia. We quantify the association of TDP-43 with stress granules over time and show that stress granule association and size are dependent on the glycine-rich region of TDP-43, which harbors the majority of pathogenic mutations. Moreover, we establish that cells harboring wild-type and mutant TDP-43 have distinct stress responses: mutant TDP-43 forms significantly larger stress granules, and is incorporated into stress granules earlier, than wild-type TDP-43; in striking contrast, wild-type TDP-43 forms more stress granules over time, but the granule size remains relatively unchanged. We propose that mutant TDP-43 alters stress granule dynamics, which may contribute to the progression of TDP-43 proteinopathies.
Activation of the small GTPase RhoA following angiotensin II stimulation is known to result in actin reorganization and stress fiber formation. Full activation of RhoA, by angiotensin II, depends on the scaffolding protein -arrestin 1, although the mechanism behind its involvement remains elusive. Here we uncover a novel partner and function for -arrestin 1, namely, in binding to ARHGAP21 (also known as ARHGAP10), a known effector of RhoA activity, whose GTPase-activating protein (GAP) function it inhibits. Using yeast two-hybrid screening, a peptide array, in vitro binding studies, truncation analyses, and coimmunoprecipitation techniques, we show that -arrestin 1 binds directly to ARHGAP21 in a region that transects the RhoA effector GAP domain. Moreover, we show that the level of a complex containing -arrestin 1 and ARHGAP21 is dynamically increased following angiotensin stimulation and that the kinetics of this interaction modulates the temporal activation of RhoA. Using information gleaned from a peptide array, we developed a cell-permeant peptide that serves to inhibit the interaction of these proteins. Using this peptide, we demonstrate that disruption of the -arrestin 1/ARHGAP21 complex results in a more active ARHGAP21, leading to less-efficient signaling via the angiotensin II type 1A receptor and, thereby, attenuation of stimulated stress fiber formation.
Nuclear receptors (NRs) are a family of highly conserved transcription factors that regulate transcription in response to small lipophilic compounds. They play a role in every aspect of development, physiology and disease in humans. They are also ubiquitous in and unique to the animal kingdom suggesting that they may have played an important role in their evolution. In contrast to the classical endocrine receptors that originally defined the family, recent studies suggest that the first NRs might have been sensors of their environment, binding ligands that were external to the host organism. The purpose of this review is to provide a broad perspective on NR ligands and address the issue of exactly what constitutes a NR ligand from historical, biological and evolutionary perspectives. This discussion will lay the foundation for subsequent reviews in this issue as well as pose new questions for future investigation.
Modern proteomic techniques have identified hundreds of proteins that bind 14-3-3s, the most widespread eukaryotic phosphoserine/threonine sensors, but accurate prediction of the target phospho-sites is difficult. Here we describe a systematic approach using synthetic peptides that tests large numbers of potential binding sites in parallel for human 14-3-3. By profiling the sequence requirements for three diverse 14-3-3 binding sites (from IRS-1, IRSp53 and GIT2), we have generated enhanced bioinformatics tools to score sites and allow more tractable testing by co-immunoprecipitation. This approach has allowed us to identify two additional sites other than Ser216 in the widely studied cell division cycle (Cdc) protein 25C, whose function depends on 14-3-3 binding. These Ser247 and Ser263 sites in human Cdc25C, which were not predicted by the existing Scansite search, are conserved across species and flank the nuclear localization region. Furthermore, we found strong interactions between 14-3-3 and peptides with the sequence Rxx[S/T]xR typical for PKC sites, and which is as abundant as the canonical Rxx[S/T]xP motif in the proteome. Two such sites are required for 14-3-3 binding in the polarity protein Numb. A recent survey of &gt;200 reported sites identified only a handful containing this motif, suggesting that it is currently under-appreciated as a candidate binding site. This approach allows one to rapidly map 14-3-3 binding sites and has revealed alternate motifs.
Energy metabolism measurements in spinal cord tumors, as well as in osseous spinal tumors/metastasis in vivo, are rarely performed only with molecular imaging (MI) by positron emission tomography (PET). This imaging modality developed from a small number of basic clinical science investigations followed by subsequent work that influenced and enhanced the research of others. Apart from precise anatomical localization by coregistration of morphological imaging and quantification, the most intriguing advantage of this imaging is the opportunity to investigate the time course (dynamics) of disease-specific molecular events in the intact organism. Most importantly, MI represents one of the key technologies in translational molecular neuroscience research, helping to develop experimental protocols that may later be applied to human patients. PET may help monitor a patient at the vertebral level after surgery and during adjuvant treatment for recurrent or progressive disease. Common clinical indications for MI of primary or secondary CNS spinal tumors are: (i) tumor diagnosis, (ii) identification of the metabolically active tumor compartments (differentiation of viable tumor tissue from necrosis) and (iii) prediction of treatment response by measurement of tumor perfusion or ischemia. While spinal PET has been used under specific circumstances, a question remains as to whether the magnitude of biochemical alterations observed by MI in CNS tumors in general (specifically spinal tumors) can reveal any prognostic value with respect to survival. MI may be able to better identify early disease and to differentiate benign from malignant lesions than more traditional methods. Moreover, an adequate identification of treatment effectiveness may influence patient management. MI probes could be developed to image the function of targets without disturbing them or as treatment to modify the target's function. MI therefore closes the gap between in vitro and in vivo integrative biology of disease. At the spinal level, MI may help to detect progression or recurrence of metastatic disease after surgical treatment. In cases of nonsurgical treatments such as chemo-, hormone- or radiotherapy, it may better assess biological efficiency than conventional imaging modalities coupled with blood tumor markers. In fact, PET provides a unique possibility to correlate topography and specific metabolic activity, but it requires additional clinical and experimental experience and research to find new indications for primary or secondary spinal tumors.
In this study, the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the modulation of the activity of NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3 exchangers was investigated in baby hamster kidney cells singly transfected with each of these isoforms by single-cell Fura-2-microfluorometry and patch clamp. Furthermore, the molecular determinants of NO on each isoform were identified by deletion, site-directed mutagenesis, and chimera strategies. Our data revealed four main findings. First, the NO-donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP; 10 nM) and the NO-precursor L-arginine (10 mM) were both able to increase NCX1 activity in a cGMP-independent way. Moreover, within the amino acid sequence 723 to 734 of the f-loop, Cys730 resulted as the target of NO on NCX1. Second, SNAP and L-arginine were able to increase NCX2 activity, but this effect was prevented by the guanylate cyclase inhibitor 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ). In addition, the membrane-permeable 8-bromoguanosine-cGMP alone was able to mimic the stimulatory effect of the gaseous mediator, suggesting the involvement of a cGMP-dependent mechanism. Within the amino acid sequence 699 to 744 of the f-loop, Ser713 was the NO molecular determinant on the NCX2 protein; Third, NCX3 activity was instead down-regulated by NO in a cGMP-independent manner. This NO-inhibitory action was exerted at the level of Cys156 in the 1-region outside the f-loop. Finally, the activity of the two NCX3 chimeras-obtained by the replacement of the NO-insensitive NCX3 region with the homologous NO-sensitive segments of NCX1 or NCX2-was potentiated by SNAP. Together, the present data demonstrate that NO differently regulates the activity of the three gene products NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3 by modulating specific molecular determinants.


Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder resulting from progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) pars compacta. Therefore, imaging of the SN has been regarded to hold greatest potential for use in the diagnosis of PD. At the 7.0T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), it is now possible to delineate clearly the shapes and boundaries of the SN. We scanned eight early and two advanced PD patients, along with nine age-matched control subjects, using a 7.0T MRI in an attempt to directly visualize the SN and quantify the differences in shape and boundaries of SN between PD subjects in comparison with the normal control subjects. In the normal controls, the boundaries between the SN and crus cerebri appear smooth, and clean &quot;arch&quot; shapes that stretch ventrally from posterior to anterior. In contrast, these smooth and clean arch-like boundaries were lost in PD subjects. The measured correlation analyses show that, in PD patients, there is age-dependent correlation and substantially stronger UPDRS motor score-dependent correlation. These results suggest that, by using 7.0T MRI, it appears possible to use these visible and distinctive changes in morphology as a diagnostic marker of PD.




Multiple sclerosis is a debilitating disease of the central nervous system that has been characteristically classified as an immune-mediated destruction of myelin, the protective coating on nerve fibers. Although the mechanisms responsible for the immune attack to central nervous system myelin have been the subject of intense investigation, more recent studies have focused on the neurodegenerative component, which is cause of clinical disability in young adults and appears to be only partially controlled by immunomodulatory therapies. Here, we review distinct, but not mutually exclusive, mechanisms of pathogenesis of axonal damage in multiple sclerosis patients that are either consequent to long-term demyelination or independent from it. We propose that the complexity of axonal degeneration and the heterogeneity of the underlying pathogenetic mechanisms should be taken into consideration for the design of targeted therapeutic intervention.

Natalizumab is a monoclonal antibody shown to be highly effective in the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). Patients treated with natalizumab can develop antibodies directed against this agent that may affect the efficacy and safety of the drug. In this observational study, the kinetics of the appearance and the incidence of anti-natalizumab antibodies were followed prospectively for 18 months in a cohort of 64 consecutive patients treated with natalizumab for relapsing MS. Blood samples were drawn immediately before starting natalizumab therapy and each month afterwards. The presence of antibodies against natalizumab was assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in all patients. Anti-natalizumab antibodies were detected in nine (14.1%) natalizumab-treated patients, three (4.68%) of whom were transiently positive while six (9.37%) were persistently positive (these patients discontinued natalizumab). All positive titres were observed during the first 4 months of treatment. One patient with a hypersensitivity reaction also had persistent antibodies. We conclude that antibodies against natalizumab develop early, within the first 6 months of therapy with natalizumab. Although no antibodies were detected after 4 months of therapy in this particular study, this does not rule out their development later on in exceptional cases.




Our objective was to establish the usefulness of the noninvasive method of the motor unit number index (MUNIX) in a large muscle and to study how macro electromyography (EMG) and MUNIX complement each other in describing the motor units (MUs) in prior polio. MUNIX and macro EMG were performed in 48 tibialis anterior muscles in 33 prior polio patients. In addition, the reproducibility of MUNIX was investigated. It is shown that MUNIX can be used to characterize MUs with high reproducibility, even in a large muscle. As judged by MUNIX values, the patients had a 25% reduction of motor neurons, whereas the macro EMG indicated a loss of 60% of the neurons. Macro EMG showed more pronounced changes compared with control material than the MUNIX. One of the reasons for this finding may be the difference in MU populations studied with the two methods.

According to reinforcement learning theory of decision making, reward expectation is computed by integrating past rewards with a fixed timescale. In contrast, we found that a wide range of time constants is available across cortical neurons recorded from monkeys performing a competitive game task. By recognizing that reward modulates neural activity multiplicatively, we found that one or two time constants of reward memory can be extracted for each neuron in prefrontal, cingulate and parietal cortex. These timescales ranged from hundreds of milliseconds to tens of seconds, according to a power law distribution, which is consistent across areas and reproduced by a 'reservoir' neural network model. These neuronal memory timescales were weakly, but significantly, correlated with those of monkey's decisions. Our findings suggest a flexible memory system in which neural subpopulations with distinct sets of long or short memory timescales may be selectively deployed according to the task demands.
Although dystonias are a common group of movement disorders, the mechanisms by which brain dysfunction results in dystonia are not understood. Rapid-onset Dystonia-Parkinsonism (RDP) is a hereditary dystonia caused by mutations in the ATP1A3 gene. Affected individuals can be free of symptoms for years, but rapidly develop persistent dystonia and Parkinsonism-like symptoms after a stressful experience. Using a mouse model, we found that an adverse interaction between the cerebellum and basal ganglia can account for the symptoms of these individuals. The primary instigator of dystonia was the cerebellum, whose aberrant activity altered basal ganglia function, which in turn caused dystonia. This adverse interaction between the cerebellum and basal ganglia was mediated through a di-synaptic thalamic pathway that, when severed, alleviated dystonia. Our results provide a unifying hypothesis for the involvement of cerebellum and basal ganglia in the generation of dystonia and suggest therapeutic strategies for the treatment of RDP.
Reinforcement signals indicating success or failure are known to alter the probability of selecting between distinct actions. However, successful performance of many motor skills, such as speech articulation, also requires learning behavioral trajectories that vary continuously over time. Here, we investigated how temporally discrete reinforcement signals shape a continuous behavioral trajectory, the fundamental frequency of adult Bengalese finch song. We provided reinforcement contingent on fundamental frequency performance only at one point in the song. Learned changes to fundamental frequency were maximal at this point, but also extended both earlier and later in the fundamental frequency trajectory. A simple principle predicted the detailed structure of learning: birds learned to produce the average of the behavioral trajectories associated with successful outcomes. This learning rule accurately predicted the structure of learning at a millisecond timescale, demonstrating that the nervous system records fine-grained details of successful behavior and uses this information to guide learning.
Optogenetics is a technique for controlling subpopulations of neurons in the intact brain using light. This technique has the potential to enhance basic systems neuroscience research and to inform the mechanisms and treatment of brain injury and disease. Before launching large-scale primate studies, the method needs to be further characterized and adapted for use in the primate brain. We assessed the safety and efficiency of two viral vector systems (lentivirus and adeno-associated virus), two human promoters (human synapsin (hSyn) and human thymocyte-1 (hThy-1)) and three excitatory and inhibitory mammalian codon-optimized opsins (channelrhodopsin-2, enhanced Natronomonas pharaonis halorhodopsin and the step-function opsin), which we characterized electrophysiologically, histologically and behaviorally in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). We also introduced a new device for measuring in vivo fluorescence over time, allowing minimally invasive assessment of construct expression in the intact brain. We present a set of optogenetic tools designed for optogenetic experiments in the non-human primate brain.
This protocol describes a method for efficient chemical synthesis of an analog of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) hexakis acetoxymethyl ester having an ortho-nitroveratryl photochemical caging group on the 6-hydroxyl position. The six esters render the probe membrane permeant, such that it can be loaded into intact living cells in vitro or in vivo. Inside cells, the caged IP(3) is inert until activated by two-photon excitation at 720 nm. The photoliberated signaling molecule can mobilize release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores on the endoplasmic reticulum. When co-loaded with the fluorescent Ca(2+) indicator rhod-2, one laser can be used for stimulating and monitoring intracellular Ca(2+) signaling with single-cell resolution. This protocol has chemistry and biology sections; the former describes the organic synthesis of the caged IP(3), which requires 12 d, and the latter an application to a day-long study of astrocyte-regulated neuronal function in living brain slices acutely isolated from rats. As Ca(2+) is the single most important intracellular second messenger and the IP(3)-Ca(2+) signaling cascade is used by many cells to produce increases in Ca(2+) concentration, this method should be widely applicable for the study of a variety of physiological processes in intact biological systems.
This protocol describes a method for efficient chemical synthesis of dinitroindolinyl derivatives of glutamate and -aminobutyric acid. These caged neurotransmitters are currently the most chemically and photochemically efficient probes for two-photon photolysis in living brain slices. The protocol only requires basic organic synthesis equipment, and no silica gel column chromatography or NMR spectroscopy is needed at any stage. HPLC is used to purify the caged transmitters at the end of the syntheses. Thus, the synthesis of dinitroindolinyl-caged neurotransmitters is within the scope of a modestly equipped chemistry laboratory.
The growth factor brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor tropomyosin-related kinase receptor type B (TRKB) are actively produced and trafficked in multiple regions in the adult brain, where they influence neuronal activity, function and survival throughout life. The diverse presence and activity of BDNF suggests a potential role for this molecule in the pathogenesis and treatment of both neurological and psychiatric disorders. This article reviews the current understanding and future directions in BDNF-related research in the central nervous system, with an emphasis on the possible therapeutic application of BDNF in modifying fundamental processes underlying neural disease.
Pain is a complex, multidimensional experience that has defied our understanding for centuries. Through the advent of noninvasive neuroimaging techniques, we have been able to examine the human brain and its response to nociceptive inputs. As a result, our knowledge of which brain regions are critical for generating an acute pain experience has grown, as has our understanding of how cognitive, emotional, contextual and various physiological factors influence the pain experience. Furthermore, we have been able to identify key processes within the brain that underpin the transition to and maintenance of chronic pain states, as well as highlight the dramatic consequences of chronic pain on the brain's structure and neurochemistry. Building upon this knowledge, we are now in a position to consider whether any of these brain imaging 'phenotypes' of acute or chronic pain should be considered as useful endophenotypes; thereby enabling us to relate the complex genetics that underpin everyday pain sensitivity or chronic pain states to intermediate biomarkers. This endophenotypic approach-the focus of this Review-simplifies the connection between genes and behavior and is needed for complex disorders like chronic pain.
The delivery of many potentially therapeutic and diagnostic compounds to specific areas of the brain is restricted by brain barriers, of which the most well known are the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier. Recent studies have shown numerous additional roles of these barriers, including an involvement in neurodevelopment, in the control of cerebral blood flow, and--when barrier integrity is impaired--in the pathology of many common CNS disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and stroke.


KIBRA single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs17070145 was identified in a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of memory performance, with some but not all follow-up studies confirming association of its T allele with enhanced memory. This allele was associated with reduced Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk in 1 study, which also found overexpression of KIBRA in memory-related brain regions of AD. We genotyped rs17070145 and 14 additional SNPs in 2571 late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) patients vs. 2842 controls, including African-Americans. We found significantly reduced risk for rs17070145 T allele in the older African-American subjects (p = 0.007) and a suggestive effect in the older Caucasian series. Meta-analysis of this allele in &gt; 8000 subjects from our and published series showed a suggestive protective effect (p = 0.07). Analysis of episodic memory in control subjects did not identify associations with rs17070145, though other SNPs showed significant associations in 1 series. KIBRA showed evidence of overexpression in the AD temporal cortex (p = 0.06) but not cerebellum. These results suggest a modest role for KIBRA as a cognition and AD risk gene, and also highlight the multifactorial complexity of its genetic associations.
Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), a neuroprotective factor with a wide spectrum of actions in the adult brain, is involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Circulating levels of IGF-I change in AD patients and are implicated in the clearance of brain amyloid beta (A) complexes. To investigate this hypothesis, we screened the IGF-I gene for various well known single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) covering % of the gene variability in a population of 2352 individuals. Genetic analysis indicated different distribution of genotypes of 1 single nucleotide polymorphism, and 1 extended haplotype in the AD population compared with healthy control subjects. In particular, the frequency of rs972936 GG genotype was significantly greater in AD patients than in control subjects (63% vs. 55%). The rs972936 GG genotype was associated with an increased risk for disease, independently of apolipoprotein E genotype, and with enhanced circulating levels of IGF-I. These findings suggest that polymorphisms within the IGF-I gene could infer greater risk for AD through their effect on IGF-I levels, and confirm the physiological role IGF-I in the pathogenesis of AD.
Mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1), transactive response (TAR)-DNA binding protein (TARDBP) and fused in sarcoma (FUS) genes account for approximately 1 third of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cases. Mutations in these genes have been found in 1% to 2% of apparently sporadic cases. We present the first case of an ALS patient carrying a de novo missense mutation of the FUS gene (c.1561C&gt;T, p.R521C). This report highlights the importance of screening ALS patients, both familial and sporadic, for FUS mutations and also suggests that de novo mutations is a relevant mechanism underlying sporadic neurodegenerative disease.
Paraoxonase (PON) gene polymorphisms have been associated with susceptibility to sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We have investigated the role of the previously associated single nucleotide polymorphisms rs854560, rs662, and rs6954345 in 350 ALS patients and 376 matched controls from Italy. No significant association was observed at genotype and haplotype level. Our data suggest that PON polymorphisms are not involved in ALS pathogenesis in an Italian population.
Mutations in the neuronal voltage-gated sodium channel genes SCN1A and SCN2A are associated with inherited epilepsies, including genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) and Dravet syndrome (severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy). The clinical presentation and severity of these epilepsies vary widely, even in people with the same mutation, suggesting the action of environmental or genetic modifiers. To gain support for the hypothesis that genetic modifiers can influence clinical presentation in patients with SCN1A-derived GEFS+, we used mouse models to study the effect of combining the human GEFS+ mutation SCN1A-R1648H with SCN2A, KCNQ2, and SCN8A mutations. Knock-in mice heterozygous for the R1648H mutation (Scn1a(RH/+)) have decreased thresholds to induced seizures and infrequent spontaneous seizures, whereas homozygotes display spontaneous seizures and premature lethality. Scn2a(Q54) transgenic mice have a mutation in Scn2a that results in spontaneous, adult-onset partial motor seizures, and mice carrying the Kcnq2-V182M mutation exhibit increased susceptibility to induced seizures, and rare spontaneous seizures as adults. Combining the Scn1a-R1648H allele with either Scn2a(Q54) or Kcnq2(V182M/+) results in early-onset, generalized tonic-clonic seizures and juvenile lethality in double heterozygous mice. In contrast, Scn8a mutants exhibit increased resistance to induced seizures. Combining the Scn1a-R1648H and Scn8a-med-jo alleles restores normal thresholds to flurothyl-induced seizures in Scn1a(RH/+) heterozygotes and improved survival of Scn1a(RH/RH) homozygotes. Our results demonstrate that variants in Scn2a, Kcnq2, and Scn8a can dramatically influence the phenotype of mice carrying the Scn1a-R1648H mutation and suggest that ion channel variants may contribute to the clinical variation seen in patients with monogenic epilepsy.
Recent evidence suggests that adult bone marrow stem cells reduce tissue damage and promote repair following CNS ischemic injury. Since granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilizes hematopoietic stem cells to the circulating compartment, here we tested whether administration of this drug modifies the outcome of a permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in adult mice. To elucidate the behavior and fate of blood-borne cells in the ischemic brain, we produced chimeric animals, in which hematopoietic derivatives are genetically tagged. G-CSF administration enhances the proliferation of microglia in the uninjured CNS but has no effect on the amount of hematopoietic cells that infiltrate the ischemic tissue and on the size of the lesion. The blood-borne elements acquire different mesodermal identities but fail to adopt neural phenotypes, even though they occasionally fuse with Purkinje neurons. These results indicate that G-CSF treatment does not exert a significant beneficial effect on the ischemic injury.
Pregabalin, a Ca(2+) channel (2)-subunit antagonist with analgesic and antiepileptic activity, reduced neuronal loss and improved functional outcome in a mouse model of focal ischemic stroke. Pregabalin administration (5-10mg/kg, i.p.) 30-90 min after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion reduced infarct volume, neuronal death in the ischemic penumbra and neurological deficits at 24h post-stroke. Pregabalin significantly decreased the amount of Ca(2+)/calpain-mediated -spectrin proteolysis in the cerebral cortex measured at 6h post-stroke. Together with the extensive clinical experience with pregabalin for other neurological indications, our findings suggest the potential for a therapeutic benefit of pregabalin in stroke patients.
Stress is one of the most important variables to determine recovery following stroke. We have previously reported that post-stroke exposure to either stress or corticosterone (CORT) alleviates hippocampal ischemic outcome. The present experiment expands previous findings by investigating the influence of exposure to stress prior to ischemic event. Rats received either daily restraint stress (1h/day; 16 consecutive days) or CORT (0.5mg/kg; 16 consecutive days) prior to focal ischemic stroke in the hippocampus induced by bilateral injection of endothelin-1 (ET-1). All experimental groups were then tested in the ziggurat task, a new task for spatial cognition. The stress+stroke group showed significant deficits in both hippocampal structure and function. No deleterious effect of pre-stroke exposure to CORT was found in the CORT+stroke group. Our results indicate that a history of chronic stress sensitizes hippocampal cells to the damaging consequences of focal ischemia. The opposing effects of CORT-related experiences in this study not only reflect the diversity of glucocorticoid actions in the stress response, but also provide evidence that elevated CORT in the absence of emotional disturbance is not sufficient to produce hippocampal deficit.
Neurogenesis continues to occur throughout life in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and may be related to hippocampus-dependent learning. We have recently reported that there is an enhancement of neurogenesis in the hippocampus only when BrdU is administered 6 days prior to starting spatial training but not when training started either 1 day or 11 days following BrdU administration. In that study, all rats were perfused on day 16 after BrdU injection in order to compare cells of the same age (i.e. 16 day old cells) and thus the survival time after learning was different between groups. This study was designed to address whether the amount of time that passed following training could also contribute to the effects of spatial learning on hippocampal neurogenesis and whether there was differential new neuron activation in response to spatial learning that depended on the age of new cells at the time of spatial learning. Here we tested whether a survival period of 5 days following spatial learning at either 1-5, 6-10 or 11-15 days following BrdU administration would alter cell survival and/or activation of new neurons. Our results indicate that 5 days after training in the Morris water task cell survival is unaltered by training on days 1-5, increased by training at days 6-10 and decreased when training occurs on days 11-15. Furthermore spatial learners trained on days 6-10 or 11-15 show greater activation of new neurons compared to cue-trained rats during a probe trial 5 days after training. In addition, rats trained on the spatial task on days 11-15 had a greater number of activated new neurons compared to rats trained on the spatial task on days 6-10. These results suggest there is a gradual removal of older BrdU-labeled new neurons following spatial learning perhaps due to a competitive interaction with a population of younger BrdU-labeled new neurons.
DYT1 dystonia is caused by a glutamic acid deletion (E) in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein torsinA. Previous studies suggest that torsinA modulates the aggregation of cytosolic misfolded proteins and ER stress responses, although the mechanisms underlying those effects remain unclear. In order to investigate the bases of these observations, we analyzed the interaction between torsinA expression, protein aggregation and ER stress in PC6.3 cells. Unexpectedly, we found that expression of torsinA(wt) or (E) does not influence the inclusion formation by an expanded polyglutamine reporter protein in this cellular model. Furthermore, torsinA does not prevent the activation of ER stress induced by thapsigargin or the reducing agent DTT. Interestingly, DTT induces post-translational changes in torsinA, more prominently for torsinA(wt) than (E). This work highlights the importance of model system selection for the study of torsinA function. Furthermore, it provides additional evidence suggesting that torsinA is sensitive to changes in the cellular redox potential.
Drug addiction, as well as learning and memory, share common mechanisms in terms of neural circuits and intracellular signaling pathways. In the present study, the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, particularly those containing NR2B subunits, in morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) and Morris water maze (MWM) learning and memory task was investigated. CPP was used as a paradigm for assessing the rewarding effect of morphine, and MWM was used to measure spatial learning and memory in male Sprague-Dawley rats. We found that ifenprodil, an antagonist highly selective for NR2B-containing NMDA receptors, dose-dependently blocked the development, maintenance and reinstatement of morphine-induced CPP, without evident impairment of the acquisition and retrieval of spatial memory in the MWM task. However, the consolidation of spatial memory was disrupted by a high dose (10 mg/kg) of ifenprodil. These results clearly demonstrate that NR2B-containing NMDA receptors are actively involved in addiction memory induced by morphine conditioning, but not in the acquisition and retrieval of spatial learning and memory. In conclusion, NR2B-containing NMDA receptors can be considered potential targets for the treatment of opiate addiction.
The Na+ and Ca(2+)-permeable melastatin related transient receptor potential 2 (TRPM2) channels can be gated either by ADP-ribose (ADPR) in concert with Ca(2+) or by hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), an experimental model for oxidative stress, binding to the channel's enzymatic Nudix domain. Since the mechanisms that lead to TRPM2 gating in response to ADPR and H(2)O(2) are not understood in neuronal cells, I summarized previous findings and important recent advances in the understanding of Ca(2+) influx via TRPM2 channels in different neuronal cell types and disease processes. Considering that TRPM2 is activated by oxidative stress, mediated cell death and inflammation, and is highly expressed in brain, the channel has been investigated in the context of central nervous system. TRPM2 plays a role in H(2)O(2) and amyloid -peptide induced striatal cell death. Genetic variants of the TRPM2 gene confer a risk of developing Western Pacific amyotropic lateral sclerosis and parkinsonism-dementia complex and bipolar disorders. TRPM2 also contributes to traumatic brain injury processes such as oxidative stress, inflammation and neuronal death. There are a limited number of TRPM2 channel blockers and they seem to be cell specific. For example, ADPR-induced Ca(2+) influx in rat hippocampal cells was not blocked by N-(p-amylcinnomoyl)anthralic acid (ACA), the IP(3) receptor inhibitor 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate or PLC inhibitor flufenamic acid (FFA). However, the Ca(2+) entry in rat primary striatal cells was blocked by ACA and FFA. In conclusion TRPM2 channels in neuronal cells can be gated by either ADPR or H(2)O(2). It seems to that the exact relationship between TRPM2 channels activation and neuronal cell death still remains to be determined.
LX-1031 is an oral, small molecule tryptophan 5-hydroxylase (TPH) inhibitor that reduces serotonin (5-HT) synthesis peripherally. It has potential for illnesses characterized by excess 5-HT, such as diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) and carcinoid diarrhea. In vitro, inhibition of TPH1 occurred in 10(-8) -10(-7) mol L(-1) range. In vivo in rodents, LX-1031 has no effect on brain 5-HT while dose-dependently reducing 5-HT, particularly in the small bowel. After oral LX1031 in humans, systemic exposure is very low, plasma concentrations are linear in dose range 250-750 mg q.i.d.; the median T(1/2) for elimination is  20 h, and repeat administration for 14 days doubles C(max) . In ascending-single-dose and multiple-dose (14 days) trials in healthy volunteers, LX-1031, 2-4 g day(-1) significantly reduced urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) starting by Day 5, and persisting over the 14 day exposure. There are no dose-limiting toxicities in healthy subjects or remarkable adverse effects in clinical trials to date. Over a 28-day treatment period, LX-1031 was associated with improved weekly global scores (2/4 weeks) and improved stool consistency with lower urinary 5-HIAA excretion. LX-1031 appears promising for chronic diarrhea associated with increased 5-HT expression including IBS-D. Optimal doses, efficacy and safety in IBS clinical trials need to be fully elucidated; low systemic exposure, selectivity for TPH1 over TPH2, and lack of effect on brain 5-HT in several species suggest that LX-1031 is unlikely to cause affective disorders.
Genetic variation in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val158Met polymorphism has been shown to influence performance on cognitive and emotional tasks. Specifically, it has been suggested that the Met allele might be less advantageous than the Val allele with respect to emotional processing. This study addresses the question whether the presence of the Met allele is directly related to both lower emotional verbalizing proficiency and differences in brain activation during emotional processing. Specifically, we investigated whether COMT genotype would be associated with differences in activation in cortical midline structures during valence evaluation of words. Forty participants ranging from low to high on the verbalizing subscale of the Bermond-Vorst Alexithymia Questionnaire (BVAQ) were genotyped for the COMT Val158Met polymorphism. During fMRI, they evaluated the valence of emotional words. Met homozygotes reported more difficulties in verbalizing their feelings. In addition, the Met allele was associated with attenuated brain activation in posterior cingulate gyrus and precuneus during valence evaluation. We conclude that the Met allele modulates neural activation in regions associated with emotional awareness. Our findings may contribute to understanding the neural correlates of susceptibility for affective disorders.
Visual dominance refers to the observation that in bimodal environments vision often has an advantage over other senses in human. Therefore, a better memory performance for visual compared to, e.g., auditory material is assumed. However, the reason for this preferential processing and the relation to the memory formation is largely unknown. In this fMRI experiment, we manipulated cross-modal competition and attention, two factors that both modulate bimodal stimulus processing and can affect memory formation. Pictures and sounds of objects were presented simultaneously in two levels of recognisability, thus manipulating the amount of cross-modal competition. Attention was manipulated via task instruction and directed either to the visual or the auditory modality. The factorial design allowed a direct comparison of the effects between both modalities. The resulting memory performance showed that visual dominance was limited to a distinct task setting. Visual was superior to auditory object memory only when allocating attention towards the competing modality. During encoding, cross-modal competition and attention towards the opponent domain reduced fMRI signals in both neural systems, but cross-modal competition was more pronounced in the auditory system and only in auditory cortex this competition was further modulated by attention. Furthermore, neural activity reduction in auditory cortex during encoding was closely related to the behavioural auditory memory impairment. These results indicate that visual dominance emerges from a less pronounced vulnerability of the visual system against competition from the auditory domain.
Human gaze is a critical social cue that can reveal intentions and dispositions of others. The right posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) is thought to be critically involved in processing eye gaze information. We combined diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify direct neural connections of right pSTS and to determine how these connections are modulated by the social significance of perceived gaze shifts. Participants saw faces with direct or averted gaze during event-related fMRI. Half of these faces remained static, and half displayed a dynamic gaze shift either towards or away from the subject. Social attention (dynamic gaze shifts towards the observer) not only increased activity in right pSTS, but also its functional connectivity with the right anterior insula (aIns) and right fusiform gyrus (FG). However, direct fiber connections from pSTS were demonstrated by DTI for the right aIns, but not the right FG. Moreover, the right FG responded to eye motion irrespective of direction and social significance; whereas the right aIns was selectively sensitive to social significance (i.e. gaze shifts towards the observer), but not generally to eye motion. We conclude that the social aspects of mutual gaze contact are processed by direct fiber pathways between right pSTS and right aIns; whereas increased connectivity with FG could reflect an enhanced perceptual analysis of changing facial features in dynamic gaze conditions and involves indirect fiber pathways with pSTS, perhaps via motion-selective regions in middle temporal (MT) gyrus that exhibited strong white-matter connections with both pSTS and FG and could thus provide inputs to these two areas.
Regions within the medial temporal lobe and basal ganglia are thought to subserve distinct memory systems underlying declarative and nondeclarative processes, respectively. One question of interest is how these multiple memory systems interact during learning to contribute to goal directed behavior. While some hypotheses suggest that regions such as the striatum and the hippocampus interact in a competitive manner, alternative views posit that these structures may operate in a parallel manner to facilitate learning. In the current experiment, we probed the functional connectivity between regions in the striatum and hippocampus in the human brain during an event related probabilistic learning task that varied with respect to type of difficulty (easy or hard cues) and type of learning (via feedback or observation). We hypothesized that the hippocampus and striatum would interact in a parallel manner during learning. We identified regions of interest (ROI) in the striatum and hippocampus that showed an effect of cue difficulty during learning and found that such ROIs displayed a similar pattern of blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) responses, irrespective of learning type, and were functionally correlated as assessed by a Granger causality analysis. Given the connectivity of both structures with dopaminergic midbrain centers, we further applied a reinforcement learning algorithm often used to highlight the role of dopamine in human reward related learning paradigms. Activity in both the striatum and hippocampus positively correlated with a prediction error signal during feedback learning. These results suggest that distinct human memory systems operate in parallel during probabilistic learning, and may act synergistically particularly when a violation of expectation occurs, to jointly contribute to learning and decision making.





Basilar artery occlusion has a poor prognosis, but intra-arterial revascularization therapy has been shown to improve outcome. We report the case of a 32-year-old patient who suffered recurrent basilar artery occlusion and was successfully treated first with mechanical and pharmacological thrombolysis, then with stenting, in 2 separate angiographic sessions. An etiology of vascular dissection may account for the early postprocedural recurrence.
The clathrin assembly protein, CALM, promotes the assembly of clathrin-coated vesicles. In a previous study, we showed that CALM controls the level of the synaptic vesicle protein VAMP2 at the plasma membrane by regulating VAMP2 endocytosis. Here, we provide evidence that CALM also influences the cell surface level of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR2. Although mechanistic details as well as the physiological relevance of CALM and GluR2 in the neuron have yet to be established, CALM-mediated trafficking could function as a component of a dedicated system for controlling postsynaptic abundance of GluR2.
He spent tens of thousands of hours peering through the oculars of a microscope at stained brain tissue sections from thousands of patients who died with or without a neurodegenerative disorder; most of those patients he had himself cared for and had removed and processed their brain tissues upon their death. His discerning mind, humble demeanor, optimism and patience were fundamental features of his character. Through his research discoveries and advocacy, Dr. William R. Markesbery fought for those millions of elderly Americans with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and their families and friends. For over a decade, my laboratory was located directly above Dr. Markesbery's in the Sanders-Brown Research Center on Aging at the University of Kentucky in Lexington. In this article, I first provide several examples of how he moved research on AD forward on multiple fronts, not only by building one of the best AD Research Centers in the world, but also by providing a helping hand to the tens of thousands of Kentuckian's and their families to ease their suffering as best he could. Also described below are the results of several research projects on which I had the good fortune of collaborating with Dr. Markesbery.



Inherited rippling muscle disease is an autosomal dominant disorder usually associated with caveolin-3 mutations. Rare cases of acquired rippling muscle disease with abnormal caveolin-3 localisation have been reported, without primary caveolin-3 mutations and in association with myasthenia gravis and acetylcholine receptor autoantibodies, or thymoma. We present three new patients with electrically-silent muscle rippling and abnormal caveolin-3 localisation, but without acetylcholine receptor autoantibodies, or clinical or electrophysiological evidence of myasthenia gravis. An autoimmune basis for rippling muscle disease is supported by spontaneous recovery and normalisation of caveolin-3 staining in one patient and alleviation of symptoms in response to plasmapheresis and immunosuppression in another. These patients expand the autoimmune rippling muscle disease phenotype, and suggest that autoantibodies to additional unidentified muscle proteins result in autoimmune rippling muscle disease.
We report a patient with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) due to the p.Ile112Thr mutation in myelin protein zero (MPZ) who presented with a patchy neuropathy with conduction block and tonic pupils. Conduction block is unusual in inherited neuropathies, while pupil abnormalities are recognised to occur in CMT especially due to MPZ mutations. This case highlights that patchy demyelinating neuropathy with conduction block may occur in p.Ile112Thr MPZ mutations. Involvement of the pupils, as in this case, may be a pointer towards a genetic rather than inflammatory cause of neuropathy.
The atypical antidepressant, mirtazapine enhances noradrenergic transmission, but its effects on serotonergic transmission remain to be clarified. The present study determined the effects of acute and chronic administration of mirtazapine on serotonergic transmissions in raphe nuclei and their innervation regions, frontal and entorhinal cortex, using multiple-probes microdialysis with real-time PCR and western blotting. Acute administration of mirtazapine did not affect extracellular serotonin level in raphe nuclei or cortex; however, chronic administration increased extracellular serotonin level in raphe nuclei without affecting that in cortex. Blockade of 5-HT1A receptor, but not that of the 5-HT2A/2C receptor, enhanced the effects of acute administration of mirtazapine on extracellular serotonin level in raphe nuclei. Chronic mirtazapine administration reduced the inhibitory function associated with somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptor in raphe nuclei, but enhanced postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor in serotonergic innervated cortical regions. Chronic administration reduced the expression of mRNA and protein of serotonin transporter and 5-HT1A receptor in raphe nuclei, but not in the cortices. These results suggested that acute administration of mirtazapine probably activated serotonergic transmission, but its stimulatory action was abolished by activated inhibitory 5-HT1A receptor. Chronic administration of mirtazapine resulted in increased extracellular serotonin level via reduction of serotonin transporter with reduction of somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptor function in raphe nuclei. These pharmacological actions of mirtazapine include its serotonergic profiles as noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressant (NaSSA).
Exposure to cholinergic agonists is a widely used paradigm to induce epileptogenesis in vivo and synchronous activity in brain slices maintained in vitro. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. Here, we used field potential recordings from the lateral entorhinal cortex in horizontal rat brain slices to explore whether two different K(+) currents regulated by muscarinic receptor activation, the inward rectifier (K(IR)) and the M-type (K(M)) currents, have a role in carbachol (CCh)-induced field activity, a prototypical model of cholinergic-dependent epileptiform synchronization. To establish whether K(IR) or K(M) blockade could replicate CCh effects, we exposed slices to blockers of these currents in the absence of CCh. K(IR) channel blockade with micromolar Ba(2+) concentrations induced interictal-like events with duration and frequency that were lower than those observed with CCh; by contrast, the K(M) blocker linopirdine was ineffective. Pre-treatment with Ba(2+) or linopirdine increased the duration of epileptiform discharges induced by subsequent application of CCh. Baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist that activates K(IR), abolished CCh-induced field oscillations, an effect that was abrogated by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 55845, and prevented by Ba(2+). Finally, when applied after CCh, the K(M) activators flupirtine and retigabine shifted leftward the cumulative distribution of CCh-induced event duration; this effect was opposite to what seen during linopirdine application under similar experimental conditions. Overall, our findings suggest that K(IR) rather than K(M) plays a major regulatory role in controlling CCh-induced epileptiform synchronization.

Aim of the present review paper was to evaluate the hypothesis (included in the proposal of new research criteria for Alzheimer's disease; Dubois et al., Lancet Neurology, 6, 734-746, 2007) that a neuropsychological tool which provides support for the semantic encoding of memorandum at the time of study and supplies category cues at the time of retrieval (i.e. the Grober-Buschke paradigm) is more effective than traditional measures of free recall in 1) differentiating patients affected by the amnestic form of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) or by mild to moderate forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from healthy matches, 2) predicting the conversion of individuals with MCI to AD, and 3) differentiating AD patients from individuals affected by other forms of dementia. Results of the review are controversial regarding the superiority of the Grober-Buschke procedure in differentiating individuals affected by AD or MCI from healthy individuals. The only study that evaluated this issue directly found that the Grober-Buschke procedure was more sensitive and specific than more traditional memory tests in predicting the conversion of MCI patients to AD. Finally, two studies reported that patients affected by AD or other forms of dementia showed different performance patterns in the free and cued recall tasks of the Grober-Buschke procedure. In conclusion, although encouraging results are reported in the few studies that investigated the ability of this procedure to predict the evolution of individuals with amnestic MCI and to differentiate AD patients from patients with other forms of cortical and subcortical dementia, more experimental work is needed to confirm these positive findings.
Over the past decade, fMRI techniques have been increasingly used to interrogate the neural correlates of successful emotional memory encoding. These investigations have typically aimed to either characterize the contributions of the amygdala and medial temporal lobe (MTL) memory system, replicating results in animals, or delineate the neural correlates of specific behavioral phenomena. It has remained difficult, however, to synthesize these findings into a systems neuroscience account of how networks across the whole-brain support the enhancing effects of emotion on memory encoding. To this end, the present study employed a meta-analytic approach using activation likelihood estimates to assess the anatomical specificity and reliability of event-related fMRI activations related to successful memory encoding for emotional versus neutral information. The meta-analysis revealed consistent clusters within bilateral amygdala, anterior hippocampus, anterior and posterior parahippocampal gyrus, the ventral visual stream, left lateral prefrontal cortex and right ventral parietal cortex. The results within the amygdala and MTL support a wealth of findings from the animal literature linking these regions to arousal-mediated memory effects. The consistency of findings in cortical targets, including the visual, prefrontal, and parietal cortices, underscores the importance of generating hypotheses regarding their participation in emotional memory formation. In particular, we propose that the amygdala interacts with these structures to promote enhancements in perceptual processing, semantic elaboration, and attention, which serve to benefit subsequent memory for emotional material. These findings may motivate future research on emotional modulation of widespread neural systems and the implications of this modulation for cognition.
It has been reported that bilateral amygdala damage in humans compromises the recognition of fear and anger in nonverbal vocalizations (Scott et al., 1997). We addressed the possibility that unilateral temporal lobe damage might be sufficient to impair fear recognition in voices. For this purpose, we tested patients after left (n=10) or right (n=8) medial temporal lobe resection for the relief of intractable epilepsy using a set of nonverbal vocalizations (Belin, Fillion-Bilodeau, &amp; Gosselin, 2008). To focus more narrowly on the role of amygdala subparts, we differentiated patients with complete amygdala damage vs. damage limited to the basolateral complex of the amygdala. The results confirmed for the first time that unilateral amygdala lesion including the basolateral complex can selectively impair recognition of fear and surprise expressed by voices, supporting the notion that the amygdala is a multimodal structure. Interestingly, this impairment was observed in patients with incomplete resection of the amygdala that spared the central nucleus and the corticomedial complex, suggesting that a resection of the basolateral complex is sufficient to affect fear recognition. Given that fear has often been considered as a precursor of anxiety, we also investigated the effect of such lesions on self-reported anxiety. The same patients appeared to be less anxious than control participants in their mood questionnaires. The association of impaired fear perception and decreased anxiety level is considered in the light of recent human and animal data, providing support for a neurobiological basis of mood changes in patients with unilateral temporal lobe damage.
The use of functional MRI (fMRI) in combination with pharmacological challenges has increased exponentially in recent years, motivated by the idea not only to elucidate the neurochemical foundations of human emotional and cognitive faculties, but also to optimize human brain function in healthy individuals and identify novel drug targets, with the ultimate goal to design more specific pharmacological therapies for the various disorders of human emotion and cognition. In particular, emotional responding of the amygdala has become a central interest, and pharmacological fMRI has been used to specifically probe, and modulate, amygdala activation in response to facial expressions of emotion and emotionally laden scenes. This article reviews recent fMRI experiments manipulating the amygdala's physiological response to such stimuli by pharmacological means and lays a particular focus on monoaminergic, glutamatergic, GABAergic, and hormonal/peptidergic challenges.
Decision-making is a complex process that requires the orchestration of multiple neural systems. For example, decision-making is believed to involve areas of the brain involved in emotion (e.g., amygdala, ventromedial prefrontal cortex) and memory (e.g., hippocampus, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex). In this article, we will present findings related to the amygdala's role in decision-making, and differentiate the contributions of the amygdala from those of other structurally and functionally connected neural regions. Decades of research have shown that the amygdala is involved in associating a stimulus with its emotional value. This tradition has been extended in newer work, which has shown that the amygdala is especially important for decision-making, by triggering autonomic responses to emotional stimuli, including monetary reward and punishment. Patients with amygdala damage lack these autonomic responses to reward and punishment, and consequently, cannot utilize &quot;somatic marker&quot; type cues to guide future decision-making. Studies using laboratory decision-making tests have found deficient decision-making in patients with bilateral amygdala damage, which resembles their real-world difficulties with decision-making. Additionally, we have found evidence for an interaction between sex and laterality of amygdala functioning, such that unilateral damage to the right amygdala results in greater deficits in decision-making and social behavior in men, while left amygdala damage seems to be more detrimental for women. We have posited that the amygdala is part of an &quot;impulsive,&quot; habit type system that triggers emotional responses to immediate outcomes.
The human amygdala is known to be involved in processing social, emotional, and reward-related information. Previous reports have indicated that the amygdala is involved in extracting trustworthiness information from faces. Interestingly, functional neuroimaging research using economic tasks that presumably require developing and/or expressing interpersonal trust, such as the Trust Game (TG), have not routinely identified involvement of the amygdala. The present study sought to explore the role of the amygdala in developing and expressing interpersonal trust, via a multi-round, multiplayer economic exchange, a version of the TG, in a large sample of participants with focal brain damage. Participants with unilateral damage to the amygdala displayed increased benevolent behavior in the TG, and specifically, they tended to increase trust in response to betrayals. On the other hand, neurologically normal adults tended to repay trust in kind, i.e., they decreased interpersonal trust in response to betrayals or increased trust in response to increases from others. Comparison participants, with brain damage that does not include the amygdala, ventromedial prefrontal or insular cortices, tended to behave ambivalently to the expressed trust or betrayal of others. Our data suggest that the amygdala is necessary for developing and expressing normal interpersonal trust. This increased tendency to behave benevolently in response to defections from others may be related to the abnormal social behavior observed in this group. Moreover, increased benevolence may increase the likelihood or opportunity to be taken advantage of by others.
The neural correlates of emotion processing have been shown to vary with age: older adults (OAs) exhibit increased frontal activations and, under some circumstances, decreased amygdala activations relative to young adults (YAs) during emotion processing. Some of these differences are additionally modulated by valence, with age-related biases toward positive versus negative stimuli, and are thought to depend on OAs' capacity for controlled elaboration. However, the role of semantic elaboration in mediating valence effects in the aging brain has not yet been explicitly tested. In the present study, YAs and OAs were scanned while they viewed negative, neutral, and positive pictures during either a deep, elaborative task or a shallow, perceptual task. fMRI results reveal that emotion-related activity in the amygdala is preserved in aging and insensitive to elaboration demands. This study provides novel evidence that differences in valence processing are modulated by elaboration: relative to YAs, OAs show enhanced activity in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) and ventrolateral PFC in response to positive versus negative stimuli, but only during elaborative processing. These positive valence effects are predicted by individual differences in executive function in OAs for the deep but not shallow task. Finally, psychophysiological interaction analyses reveal age effects on valence-dependent functional connectivity between medial PFC and ventral striatum, as well as age and task effects on medial PFC-retrosplenial cortex interactions. Altogether, these findings provide support for the hypothesis that valence shifts in the aging brain are mediated by controlled processes such as semantic elaboration, self-referential processing, and emotion regulation.


Ecstasy (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, MDMA) is a popular recreational drug with known serotonergic neurotoxicity. Its long-term effects on dopaminergic function are less certain. Studying the long-term effects of ecstasy is often confounded by concomitant polydrug use and the short duration of abstinence. We used (18)F-dopa positron emission tomography (PET) to investigate the long-term effects of ecstasy on nigrostriatal dopaminergic function in a group of male ex-recreational users of ecstasy who had been abstinent for a mean of 3.22 years. We studied 14 ex-ecstasy users (EEs), 14 polydrug-using controls (PCs) (matched to the ex-users for other recreational drug use), and 12 drug-naive controls (DCs). Each participant underwent one (18)F-dopa PET, cognitive assessments, and hair and urinary analyses to corroborate drug-use history. The putamen (18)F-dopa uptake of EEs was 9% higher than that of DCs (p=0.021). The putamen uptake rate of PCs fell between the other two groups, suggesting that the hyperdopaminergic state in EEs may be due to the combined effects of ecstasy and polydrug use. There was no relationship between the amount of ecstasy used and striatal (18)F-dopa uptake. Increased putaminal (18)F-dopa uptake in EEs after an abstinence of &gt;3 years (mean) suggests that the effects are long lasting. Our findings suggest potential long-term effects of ecstasy use, in conjunction with other recreational drugs, on nigrostriatal dopaminergic functions. Further longitudinal studies are required to elucidate the significance of these findings as they may have important public health implications.
Previous data suggest that a polymorphism at the serotonin (5-HT) transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) may influence stress resilience and stress-related depression symptoms due to interactions between brain 5-HT dysfunction and stress exposure. Although attentional bias for emotional information has been reliably observed in depression, the interaction between 5-HT transporter-linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR), brain 5-HT vulnerability, and acute stress on affective information processing has not yet been investigated. This study examines the effects of tryptophan (TRP) augmentation (indicating 5-HT manipulation) on inhibition of negative emotional information under stress in mainly female S'/S'- vs L'/L'-allele carriers. A total of 15 female homozygotic short-allele 5-HTTLPR (S'/S'=S/S, S/L(G), L(G)/L(G)) and 13 female homozygotic long-allele 5-HTTLPR (L'/L'=L(A)/L(A)) subjects were tested for mood and inhibition of emotional information in a double-blind, placebo-controlled design before and after stress exposure following TRP manipulation. Stress exposure significantly impaired inhibition of negative affective information only in S'/S' carriers, whereas L'/L' carriers even showed increased inhibition of negative information. The S'/S' allele 5-HTTLPR genotype increases cognitive-attentional bias for negative emotional information under acute stress. As this bias is an important component of depression, this may be a mediating mechanism making S'/S'-allele carriers more vulnerability for stress-induced depression symptoms. Moreover, current data suggest that L'/L'-allele genotypes are more resilient, even increasing cognitive emotional (inhibitory) control after stress.
Chronic methamphetamine (meth) abuse can lead to persisting cognitive deficits. Here, we utilized a long-access meth self-administration (SA) protocol to assess recognition memory and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) expression, and the possible reversal of cognitive impairments with the mGluR5 allosteric modulator, 3-cyano-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl) benzamide (CDPPB). Male, Long-Evans rats self-administered i.v. meth (0.02mg/infusion) on an FR1 schedule of reinforcement or received yoked-saline infusions. After seven daily 1-h sessions, rats were switched to 6-h daily sessions for 14 days, and then underwent drug abstinence. Rats were tested for object recognition memory at 1 week after meth SA at 90min and 24h retention intervals. In a separate experiment, rats underwent the same protocol, but received either vehicle or CDPPB (30mg/kg) after familiarization. Rats were killed on day 8 or 14 post-SA and brain tissue was obtained. Meth intake escalated over the extended access period. Additionally, meth-experienced rats showed deficits in both short- and long-term recognition memory, demonstrated by a lack of novel object exploration. The deficit at 90min was reversed by CDPPB treatment. On day 8, meth intake during SA negatively correlated with mGluR expression in the perirhinal and prefrontal cortex, and mGluR5 receptor expression was decreased 14 days after discontinuation of meth. This effect was specific to mGluR5 levels in the perirhinal cortex, as no differences were identified in the hippocampus or in mGluR2/3 receptors. These results from a clinically-relevant animal model of addiction suggest that mGluR5 receptor modulation may be a potential treatment of cognitive dysfunction in meth addiction.
Study of the anxiety disorders may be a particularly useful vehicle for demonstrating how foundational sciences (e.g. cognitive-affective neuroscience, evolutionary psychology) can advance psychiatric theory and research. Here we consider important potential advances and remaining future challenges when basic research on threat detection and precautionary responses is used to address the anxiety disorders. We emphasize the potential value of a model of threat detection and precautionary responses that integrates cognitive-affective neuroscience and evolutionary approaches for understanding the anxiety disorders. However, we also suggest that substantial additional work is needed in order to link systematically the psychobiological mechanisms posited by basic work on threat detection and precautionary responses to the complex phenomena seen in the clinic.
The fibers of corticospinal tract (CST), which control fine motor function, predominantly project to the contralateral spinal cord, not recross to the ipsilateral side. Ephrin-B3, which is expressed in the midline of the spinal cord, and its receptor, EphA4, are crucial for preventing CST fibers from recrossing the midline in the developing spinal cord. However, these fibers can cross the midline to the denervated side after a unilateral CST or cortical injury. We determined the reason CST fibers can cross the midline after a cortical injury and the changes in ephrin-B3-EphA4 signaling associated with such a crossing. We first examined axonal sprouting from CST fibers after unilateral ablation of the motor cortex in postnatal and adult mice. CST fibers crossed the midline of the spinal cord after cortical ablation, especially when conducted during the early postnatal period. These fibers were well associated with functional recovery after the injury. We next assessed the mRNA expression of ephrin-B3 and EphA4 before and after the ablation. Surprisingly, no changes were detected in the expression patterns. We found, however, that ephrin-B3 expression in the ventral part of the midline disappeared after postnatal day 9 (P9), but was pronounced along the entire midline before P6. Most of the CST fibers crossed the midline through the ventral region, where ephrin-B3 expression was absent. Our results suggest that ephrin-B3 is not expressed along the entire midline of the spinal cord, and sprouting axons can cross the midline at ephrin-B3-negative areas.
New neurons are continuously generated in the hippocampus at the subgranular zone of the dentate granule cell layer throughout life. However, the lineage of newly generated neurons is unknown in detail. Here, using a retrovirus vector encoding EGFP, we labeled proliferating cells in an organotypic slice culture of the postnatal hippocampus of rat, and tracked their descendents over a long period. At 28 days post-inoculation, the phenotypes of the cells were immunohistochemically identified using specific antibodies to cell-type markers such as HuC/D (pan-neuronal marker), GFAP (astrocyte marker), Prox1 (dentate granule cell marker) or NeuN (mature neuronal marker). We found that the cells were mostly GFAP-negative in the HuC/D-positive lineages. The EGFP-expressing cells were often untraceable shortly after cell division in the HuC/D-positive lineages. The postmitotic periods of these cells distributed between 2 and 14 days. For the lineages expressing both Prox1 and NeuN the newborn cells became untraceable in a similar period (2-10 days). It is suggested that the newly generated neurons differentiate to mature dentate granule cells in the slice culture once they have survived over this critical traceability period.





Preclinical data show that, compared to no exposure, prenatal cocaine exposure (PCE) has age-dependent effects on social interaction and aggression. The aim of this clinical study was to determine how heavy/persistent PCE--after controlling for other prenatal drug exposures, sex and postnatal factors--predicts behavioral sensitivity to provocation (i.e., reactive aggression) using a well-validated human laboratory model of aggression. African American teens (mean=14.2 years old) with histories of heavy/persistent PCE (maternal cocaine use  2 times/week during pregnancy, or positive maternal or infant urine/meconium test at delivery; n=86) or none/some exposure (NON: maternal cocaine use &lt; 2 times/week during pregnancy; n=330) completed the Point Subtraction Aggression Paradigm. In this task, teens competed in a computer game against a fictitious opponent. There were three possible responses: (a) earn points, to exchange for money later; or (b) &quot;aggress&quot; against the fictitious opponent by subtracting their points; or (c) escape temporarily from point subtraction perpetrated by the fictitious opponent. The PCE group responded significantly more frequently on the escape option than the NON group, but did not differ in aggressive or money-earning responses. These data indicate that PCE-teens provoked with a social stressor exhibit a behavioral preference for escape (negative reinforcement) than for aggressive (retaliatory) or appetitive (point- or money-reinforced) responses. These findings are consistent with preclinical data showing that social provocation of adolescent or young adult offspring after PCE is associated with greater escape behavior, inferring greater submission, social withdrawal, or anxiety, as opposed to aggressive behavior.
Tributyltin (TBT) is a largely diffused environmental pollutant, banned from paints in the European Union from 2003. However, the level of TBT (and other organotins) in food, particularly fish and shellfish, remains still high. Several studies demonstrated that TBT is involved in the development of obesity, via peripheral action, but currently, there are only a few data illustrating effects of TBT on the nervous system. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that acute exposure to TBT may directly activate brain cells in particular, in those hypothalamic nuclei regulating the food intake. To this purpose, TBT was orally administered at a single dose (10 mg/kg/body weight) to two groups of adult male mice: regularly fed or fasted for 24 h. Mice were sacrificed 90 min after the TBT administration and perfused by 4% paraformaldehyde. Brains were quickly dissected, frozen and sectioned for immunocytochemical detection of c-fos, a common marker of cell activation. In both, fed or fasted mice, exposure to TBT induced a significant increase of c-fos expression in the arcuate nucleus in comparison to control mice. The other nuclei involved in the control of feeding behavior did not show any significant increase. These data are the first in vivo demonstration that TBT has not only peripheral effects, but also may activate elements in the brain, in particular in a crucial region for the regulation of food intake like the arcuate nucleus.
Single-cell gene expression levels show substantial variations among cells in seemingly homogenous populations. Astrocytes perform many control and regulatory functions in the central nervous system. In contrast to neurons, we have limited knowledge about functional diversity of astrocytes and its molecular basis. To study astrocyte heterogeneity and stem/progenitor cell properties of astrocytes, we used single-cell gene expression profiling in primary mouse astrocytes and dissociated mouse neurosphere cells. The transcript number variability for astrocytes showed lognormal features and revealed that cells in primary cultures to a large extent co-express markers of astrocytes and neural stem/progenitor cells. We show how subpopulations of cells can be identified at single-cell level using unsupervised algorithms and that gene correlations can be used to identify differences in activity of important transcriptional pathways. We identified two subpopulations of astrocytes with distinct gene expression profiles. One had an expression profile very similar to that of neurosphere cells, whereas the other showed characteristics of activated astrocytes in vivo.
When we feel connected and safe, the cerebral cortex of our brain responds by becoming involved, which leads to peak performance. When we work in a culture of constant fear, the deeper levels of our brain are activated to respond to the fear and our cerebral cortex is disabled. ultures that are negative and focus on people's weaknesses create &quot;learned helplessness&quot; lead to high rates of depression among the workforce, and cannot achieve the results of optimistic workplaces. The profession loses far too many excellent nurses every year because of the inability of managers and leaders to seriously connect with the front line. What we do as leaders creates a physiological reaction and a basis for effective or ineffective work units.



Preterm infants in the neonatal intensive care unit undergo repeated exposure to procedural and ongoing pain. Early and long-term changes in pain processing, stress-response systems and development may result from cumulative early pain exposure. So that appropriate treatment can be given, accurate assessment of pain is vital, but is also complex because these infants' responses may differ from those of full-term infants. A variety of uni- and multidimensional assessment tools are available; however, many have incomplete psychometric testing and may not incorporate developmentally important cues. Near-infrared spectroscopy and/or EEG techniques that measure neonatal pain responses at a cortical level offer new opportunities to validate neonatal pain assessment tools.
Seeking biomarkers reflecting disease development in cystic echinococcosis (CE), we used a proteomic approach linked to immunological characterisation for the identification of respective antigens. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) of sheep hydatid fluid, followed by immunoblot analysis (IB) with sera from patients with distinct phases of disease, enabled us to identify by mass spectrometry heat shock protein 20 (HSP20) as a potential marker of active CE. Using IB, antibodies specific to the 34 kDa band of HSP20 were detected in sera from 61/95 (64%) patients with CE, but not in sera from healthy subjects. IB revealed anti-HSP20 antibodies in a higher percentage of sera from patients with active disease than in sera from patients with inactive disease (81 vs. 24%; P = 10(-4)). These primary results were confirmed in a long-term follow-up study after pharmacological and surgical treatment. Herewith anti-HSP20 antibody levels significantly decreased over the course of treatment in sera from patients with cured disease, relative to sera from patients with progressive disease (P = 0017). Thus, during CE, a comprehensive strategy of proteomic identification combined with immunological validation represents a promising approach for the identification of biomarkers useful for the prognostic assessment of treatment of CE patients.
Impulsive personalities are considered to have a general impairment in cognitive flexibility and cortical inhibition. To examine this hypothesis we used a trial by trial Stroop task in impulsive and non impulsive patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and recorded errors and reaction times (RT). We tested 28 impulsive PD (PD+ICB) and 24 non impulsive PD (PD-ICB) patients prior to and after dopaminergic medication. These results were compared with 24 age matched normal controls. We found an increased error rate in all PD patients prior to their usual medication which resolved after medication. Furthermore patients on medication showed enhanced cognitive flexibility and shorter RT. There was no difference between non impulsive and impulsive PD patients. This suggests that the impulsive behaviours may not affect response inhibition tasks and the response inhibition required in the Stroop test does not engage the same processes that differentiate impulsive and non-impulsive PD patients, which likely involve mesolimbic dopamine.
This study was carried out to evaluate the association between selegiline use and Parkinson's disease (PD) progression in a clinical sample by evaluating modified Hoehn and Yahr Stage (H&amp;Y) stage transition times. Data were obtained from the movement disorder database of the National Neuroscience Institute in Singapore. Cox regression analysis was used to examine the association between baseline variables and H&amp;Y stage transition times. In multi-variate Cox regression analysis, patients who were of younger age, shorter PD duration, lower Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor scores, on selegiline treatment ( 3 years) and not on COMT inhibitors were associated with longer transition times from stage 2-2.5. Patients who were treated with selegiline ( 3 years) and not on COMT inhibitors experienced longer transition times from stage 2.5-3. In conclusion, selegiline use for 3 years or more in early PD was associated with a slower progression of PD as evaluated by H&amp;Y transition times.
Neurophysiologic intraoperative monitoring, using somatosensory, brainstem auditory, and visual evoked potentials, transcranial electric motor stimulation, and electromyography, is typically used during complex surgeries involving the motor and sensory cortex, brainstem, cranial nerves, spinal cord, nerve root, peripheral roots, brachial plexus, lumbar plexus, and peripheral nerves. The particular type of surgery and the neurologic structures at risk determine the type of monitoring chosen. Although many methods are the same in adult and pediatric patients, some differences in the pediatric population will be discussed here. In general, monitoring consists of two types. The first involves monitoring data which is obtained on an ongoing basis, with comparisons to data obtained at the outset of surgery (baseline). The second form of monitoring involves mapping neural structures, so that a neural structure in the field is identified accurately, to avoid injuring it, or to demonstrate its degree of neurophysiologic function or impairment. In this paper we discuss both forms of monitoring and their general applications, including unique features or modifications needed in the pediatric population.
The action-based model of dissonance and recent advances in neuroscience suggest that commitment to action should cause greater relative left frontal cortical activity. Two experiments were conducted in which electroencephalographic activity was recorded following commitment to action, operationalized with a perceived choice manipulation. Perceived high as compared to low choice to engage in the action, regardless of whether it was counterattitudinal or proattitudinal, caused greater relative left frontal cortical activity. Moreover, perceived high as compared to low choice caused attitudes to be more consistent with the action. These results broaden the theoretical reach of the action-based model by suggesting that similar neural and motivational processes are involved in attitudinal responses to counterattitudinal and proattitudinal commitments.
Little is known about the role of steroidogenic enzymes in pain modulation. This study examined the effects of 5-reductase and aromatase inhibition on formalin-induced tonic pain (FITP) in adult female rats. The animals received subcutaneous injection (5 mg/kg) of finasteride (an inhibitor of 5-reductase) and letrozole (an inhibitor of aromatase), either separately or in combination, 15 min before formalin injection at a low (0.25%) and high (2.5%) concentration. Pretreatment with inhibitors increased FITP evoked by injection of 0.25% formalin, but they were not effective on 2.5% formalin pain. The enhancing effects of finasteride and letrozole on FITP induced by 2.5% formalin was demonstrated by inhibitory actions of these drugs on morphine (7 and 10 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) induced antinociception. The nervous system could be considered as the main target of the enzymes inhibition, since the pronociceptive effect was also observed after administration of inhibitors to ovariectomized rats. Altogether, these findings suggest that the biological activity of the enzymes 5-reductase and aromatase modulates FITP and may help to develop effective therapeutic strategies to counteract pain.
Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A receptor modulators constitute the majority of clinically relevant sedative-hypnotics. Zolpidem (Ambien) is a nonbenzodiazepine GABA-A receptor modulator that binds with high affinity to GABA-A receptors expressing alpha-1 subunits. The present study examined the effects of a new approach to the oral administration of zolpidem on locomotor activity, body weight, food intake, relative food intake, feed efficiency, anxiety, and visceral adiposity in rats. Effects of withdrawal associated with cessation of the drug were also recorded. A daily chronically administered oral 10 mg/kg dose of zolpidem caused a decrease in locomotor activity, an increase in food intake and relative food intake, and a more positive feed efficiency during the drug-administration period. Anxiety and visceral adiposity also increased in animals receiving the drug. During withdrawal of zolpidem, there was a decrease in body weight, food intake, relative food intake, and anxiety, as well as a negative feed efficiency. These results suggest that zolpidem can modulate locomotor activity, metabolism, and anxiety-related behavior. A highly positive feed efficiency and increased visceral adiposity associated with zolpidem intake were unique findings of this study.
Both oxidative stress and excessive activation of glutamate receptors are implicated as major causes of ischemic brain injury. However, the existing N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists have not exerted good clinical outcome, most likely because they do not protect neurons against oxidative stress. Thus, more effective glutamate antagonists and antioxidants are needed for the treatment of ischemic stroke. In previous study, SP-8203, derived from earth worms, showed the blocking effect of NMDA receptor. We provided evidence that SP-8203 could also suppress the oxidative stress in this study. In vitro, 250 M H2O2 was treated to SH-SY5Y cells after the pre-treatment of SP-8203 (2, 20 and 200 M). SP-8203 significantly suppressed H2O2-induced cell death and reactive oxygen species production. In addition, we investigated the effects of SP-8203 in middle cerebral artery (MCA) occluded rat model. SP-8203 (5 and 10 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally to rats before and after the MCA occlusion and was injected daily for 10 days. After 10 days, SP-8203 remarkably reduced brain infarct volume and lipid peroxidation products in the MCA-occluded rats but MK-801 didn't. Moreover, SP-8203 significantly improved neurological deficits such as shortening of latency time in Rota rod performance. However, MK-801 didn't improve behavioral deficits. Therefore, SP-8203 may be more effective for multiple-target mechanisms of ischemic stroke.
Latent inhibition (LI) manifests as poorer conditioning to a CS that has previously been presented without consequence. There is some evidence that LI can be potentiated by reduced mesoaccumbal dopamine (DA) function but the locus within the nucleus accumbens of this effect is as yet not firmly established. Experiment 1 tested whether 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesions of DA terminals within the core and medial shell subregions of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) would enhance LI under conditions that normally disrupt LI in controls (weak pre-exposure). LI was measured in a thirst motivated conditioned emotional response procedure with 10 pre-exposures (to a noise CS) and 2 conditioning trials. The vehicle-injected and core-lesioned animals did not show LI and conditioned to the pre-exposed CS at comparable levels to the non-pre-exposed controls. 6-OHDA lesions to the medial shell, however, produced potentiation of LI, demonstrated across two extinction tests. In a subsequent experiment, haloperidol microinjected into the medial shell prior to conditioning similarly enhanced LI. These results underscore the dissociable roles of core and shell subregions of the NAc in mediating the expression of LI and indicate that reduced DA function within the medial shell leads to enhanced LI.
Associations between drugs of abuse and cues facilitate the acquisition and maintenance of addictive behaviors. Although significant research has been done to elucidate the role that simple discriminative or discrete conditioned stimuli (e.g., a tone or a light) play in addiction, less is known about complex environmental cues. The purpose of the present study was to examine the role of a musical conditioned stimulus by assessing locomotor activity and in vivo microdialysis. Two groups of rats were given non-contingent injections of methamphetamine (1.0 mg/kg) or vehicle and placed in standard conditioning chambers. During these conditioning sessions both groups were exposed to a continuous conditioned stimulus, in the form of a musical selection (&quot;Four&quot; by Miles Davis) played repeatedly for 90 min. After seven consecutive conditioning days subjects were given one day of rest, and subsequently tested for locomotor activity or dopamine release in the absence of drugs while the musical conditioned stimulus was continually present. The brain regions examined included the basolateral amygdala, nucleus accumbens, and prefrontal cortex. The results show that music is an effective contextual conditioned stimulus, significantly increasing locomotor activity after repeated association with methamphetamine. Furthermore, this musical conditioned stimulus significantly increased extracellular dopamine levels in the basolateral amygdala and nucleus accumbens. These findings support other evidence showing the importance of these brain regions in conditioned learning paradigms, and demonstrate that music is an effective conditioned stimulus warranting further investigation.
Individuals are known to differ in their sensitivity to cocaine. Cocaine is known to inhibit the re-uptake of monoamines. The response to cocaine has also been found to depend on monoamines inside reserpine-sensitive storage vesicles. The present study examined the effects of reserpine (1-2 mg/kg) on cocaine-induced behavior (10-15 mg/kg) in Low Responders (LR) and High Responders (HR) to novelty rats. LR displayed less cocaine-induced walking, wall rearing, free rearing and stereotyped behavior than HR did. The dose of 1 mg/kg of reserpine decreased cocaine-induced walking, wall rearing, free rearing and stereotyped behavior in LR, but not in HR. A dose of 2 mg/kg of reserpine was required to inhibit cocaine-induced behavior in HR. Combining these behavioral findings with our previously reported neurochemical finding that a higher dose of reserpine was required to inhibit the accumbal dopamine response to cocaine in HR than in LR (Verheij et al., 2008), suggests that HR are more sensitive to the behavioral effects of cocaine than LR because cocaine can release more monoamines from storage vesicles in HR than in LR. Our behavioral data also demonstrate that the individual differences in sensitivity to reserpine are not only limited to the dopaminergic system of the nucleus accumbens.
G protein-coupled dopamine receptors (D1, D2, D3, D4, and D5) mediate all of the physiological functions of the catecholaminergic neurotransmitter dopamine, ranging from voluntary movement and reward to hormonal regulation and hypertension. Pharmacological agents targeting dopaminergic neurotransmission have been clinically used in the management of several neurological and psychiatric disorders, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, Huntington's disease, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD(1)), and Tourette's syndrome. Numerous advances have occurred in understanding the general structural, biochemical, and functional properties of dopamine receptors that have led to the development of multiple pharmacologically active compounds that directly target dopamine receptors, such as antiparkinson drugs and antipsychotics. Recent progress in understanding the complex biology of dopamine receptor-related signal transduction mechanisms has revealed that, in addition to their primary action on cAMP-mediated signaling, dopamine receptors can act through diverse signaling mechanisms that involve alternative G protein coupling or through G protein-independent mechanisms via interactions with ion channels or proteins that are characteristically implicated in receptor desensitization, such as -arrestins. One of the future directions in managing dopamine-related pathologic conditions may involve a transition from the approaches that directly affect receptor function to a precise targeting of postreceptor intracellular signaling modalities either directly or through ligand-biased signaling pharmacology. In this comprehensive review, we discuss dopamine receptor classification, their basic structural and genetic organization, their distribution and functions in the brain and the periphery, and their regulation and signal transduction mechanisms. In addition, we discuss the abnormalities of dopamine receptor expression, function, and signaling that are documented in human disorders and the current pharmacology and emerging trends in the development of novel therapeutic agents that act at dopamine receptors and/or on related signaling events.
Autoreactive B cells are characterized by their ability to secrete autoantibodies directed against self-peptides. During the last decade, it has become increasingly apparent that B lymphocytes not only produce autoantibodies but also exert important regulatory roles independent of their function as antibody-producing cells. This is especially relevant in the context of autoimmunity, because autoreactive B cells have been shown to possess the ability to activate pathogenic T cells, to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines, and to promote the formation of tertiary lymphoid tissue in target organs. The production of monoclonal antibodies against B-cell-surface molecules has facilitated the characterization of several distinct B lymphocyte subsets. These cell-surface molecules have not only served as useful cell differentiation markers but have also helped to unravel the important biological functions of these cells. Some of these molecules, all of which are expressed on the cell surface, have proven to be effective therapeutic targets. In both animal models and in clinical assays, the efficient elimination of B lymphocytes has been shown to be useful in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases. The treatment of most rheumatic autoimmune diseases relies mainly on the use of cytotoxic immunosuppressants and corticosteroids. Although this has resulted in improved disease survival, patients may nonetheless suffer severe adverse events and, in some cases, their relapse rate remains high. The increasing need for safer and more effective drugs along with burgeoning new insights into the pathogenesis of these disorders has fueled interest in biological agents; clinical trials involving the B-cell depletion agent rituximab have been especially promising. This article reviews the current knowledge of B-cell biology and pathogenesis as well as the modern therapeutic approaches for rheumatic autoimmune diseases focusing in particular on the targeting of B-cell-specific surface molecules and on the blocking of B-cell activation and survival.
We present a generally covariant formulation of human arm dynamics and optimization principles in Riemannian configuration space. We extend the one-parameter family of mean-squared-derivative (MSD) cost functionals from Euclidean to Riemannian space, and we show that they are mathematically identical to the corresponding dynamic costs when formulated in a Riemannian space equipped with the kinetic energy metric. In particular, we derive the equivalence of the minimum-jerk and minimum-torque change models in this metric space. Solutions of the one-parameter family of MSD variational problems in Riemannian space are given by (reparameterized) geodesic paths, which correspond to movements with least muscular effort. Finally, movement invariants are derived from symmetries of the Riemannian manifold. We argue that the geometrical structure imposed on the arm's configuration space may provide insights into the emerging properties of the movements generated by the motor system.
The nature of stress-related cognitive changes is still a matter of debate. Stress is often considered to be deleterious to cognitive function, despite many instances in which beneficial effects are evident in neural structure and cognition. Moreover, in some neuropathological conditions such as focal ischemia, stress exaggerates loss of cognitive function. The present experiments set out to investigate the effects of repeated restraint stress on spatial cognition in rats, and on recovery from a focal stroke induced by injection of endothelin-1 (ET-1) into the hippocampus (HPC). We did not observe a deleterious effect of stress on performance in the Morris water task (MWT). The HPC focal stroke induced by ET-1 produced lasting spatial learning impairments. Importantly, rats in the HPC stroke+stress group exhibited superior performance in the MWT compared with the HPC stroke-only group. No between-group structural difference was observed related to stress. These findings confirm that corticosterone-related experiences may be key factors influencing cognitive performance after HPC focal ischemic stroke.
Several recent preliminary clinical studies have suggested that artichoke (Cynara scolymus L., Asteraceae family) preparations may be capable of lowering post-prandial glycemia. The present study was designed to test this hypothesis in laboratory rats. To this aim, non-selected Wistar and genetically obese Zucker rats were treated acutely with a purified extract of Cynara scolymus flowering heads (500-1500 mg/kg by gavage) immediately prior to 1 h access to a fixed amount of food. Glycemia was recorded 60, 120 and 360 min after food presentation. Treatment with Cynara scolymus flowering head extract resulted in a significant decrease of post-prandial glycemia in both rat strains. The lack of any fiber content in this Cynara scolymus flowering head extract excludes the involvement of dietary fibers in glycemia reduction. The results obtained constitute the first evidence of a hypoglycemic effect of an artichoke preparation in laboratory rodents and confirm previous observations made in humans.
The dynamics of nickel (Ni) uptake, transfer, retention and clearance in fetuses and late gestational rats were investigated by assessing its distributions in placenta, maternal and fetal organs and tissues during the 24h period after a single dose of (63)Ni intraperitoneal injection on gestational day 20. Peak (63)Ni radioactivity was detected at 0.5h in maternal blood, at 3h in placenta, fetal membranes, fetal blood, fetal heart, maternal kidney, lung, stomach, liver and brain, at 9h in fetal kidney, stomach, liver and brain, and lastly at 24h in fetal lung and amniotic fluid. The maximal (63)Ni radioactivity among all samples was detected consistently in the fetal membranes and placenta. The (63)Ni radioactivity in fetal blood was higher than that in maternal blood from 3 to 24h. The fetal liver, heart, stomach and brain exhibited higher (63)Ni radioactivity than the corresponding maternal organs from 6 to 24h. However, maternal kidney consistently exhibited significantly higher (63)Ni radioactivity than the fetal kidney. The (63)Ni in fetal lung and amniotic fluid increased throughout the period of experimental observation. These observations corroborated previous finding that nickel is actively transferred across the blood-placenta-barrier into fetus, but hardly from fetus to mother. Moreover, these results suggest that the placenta has a high affinity for nickel and its barrier does not protect the fetus from nickel exposure. The fact that nickel concentrations are higher in most fetal organs and tissues than in corresponding maternal organs and tissues in late gestation indicates that, unlike the dam, fetuses lack effective means for getting rid of excessive nickel due to its confined environment and relatively weak kidney functions. The situation is exacerbated by mother-to-fetus unidirectional transfer. Consequently, the fetuses are particularly vulnerable to the damaging effects of nickel.
Dynamic balance of excitation and inhibition is crucial for network stability and cortical processing, but it is unclear how this balance is achieved at different membrane potentials (V(m)) of cortical neurons, as found during persistent activity or slow V(m) oscillation. Here we report that a V(m)-dependent modulation of recurrent inhibition between pyramidal cells (PCs) contributes to the excitation-inhibition balance. Whole-cell recording from paired layer-5 PCs in rat somatosensory cortical slices revealed that both the slow and the fast disynaptic IPSPs, presumably mediated by low-threshold spiking and fast spiking interneurons, respectively, were modulated by changes in presynaptic V(m). Somatic depolarization (&gt;5 mV) of the presynaptic PC substantially increased the amplitude and shortened the onset latency of the slow disynaptic IPSPs in neighboring PCs, leading to a narrowed time window for EPSP integration. A similar increase in the amplitude of the fast disynaptic IPSPs in response to presynaptic depolarization was also observed. Further paired recording from PCs and interneurons revealed that PC depolarization increases EPSP amplitude and thus elevates interneuronal firing and inhibition of neighboring PCs, a reflection of the analog mode of excitatory synaptic transmission between PCs and interneurons. Together, these results revealed an immediate V(m)-dependent modulation of cortical inhibition, a key strategy through which the cortex dynamically maintains the balance of excitation and inhibition at different states of cortical activity.
A common feature in biological neuromuscular systems is the redundancy in joint actuation. Understanding how these redundancies are resolved in typical joint movements has been a long-standing problem in biomechanics, neuroscience and prosthetics. Many empirical studies have uncovered neural, mechanical and energetic aspects of how humans resolve these degrees of freedom to actuate leg joints for common tasks like walking. However, a unifying theoretical framework that explains the many independent empirical observations and predicts individual muscle and tendon contributions to joint actuation is yet to be established. Here we develop a computational framework to address how the ankle joint actuation problem is resolved by the neuromuscular system in walking. Our framework is founded upon the proposal that a consideration of both neural control and leg muscle-tendon morphology is critical to obtain predictive, mechanistic insight into individual muscle and tendon contributions to joint actuation. We examine kinetic, kinematic and electromyographic data from healthy walking subjects to find that human leg muscle-tendon morphology and neural activations enable a metabolically optimal realization of biological ankle mechanics in walking. This optimal realization (a) corresponds to independent empirical observations of operation and performance of the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles, (b) gives rise to an efficient load-sharing amongst ankle muscle-tendon units and (c) causes soleus and gastrocnemius muscle fibers to take on distinct mechanical roles of force generation and power production at the end of stance phase in walking. The framework outlined here suggests that the dynamical interplay between leg structure and neural control may be key to the high walking economy of humans, and has implications as a means to obtain insight into empirically inaccessible features of individual muscle and tendons in biomechanical tasks.
The basal nucleus of the amygdala (BA) is involved in the formation of context-dependent conditioned fear and extinction memories. To understand the underlying neural mechanisms we developed a large-scale neuron network model of the BA, composed of excitatory and inhibitory leaky-integrate-and-fire neurons. Excitatory BA neurons received conditioned stimulus (CS)-related input from the adjacent lateral nucleus (LA) and contextual input from the hippocampus or medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). We implemented a plasticity mechanism according to which CS and contextual synapses were potentiated if CS and contextual inputs temporally coincided on the afferents of the excitatory neurons. Our simulations revealed a differential recruitment of two distinct subpopulations of BA neurons during conditioning and extinction, mimicking the activation of experimentally observed cell populations. We propose that these two subgroups encode contextual specificity of fear and extinction memories, respectively. Mutual competition between them, mediated by feedback inhibition and driven by contextual inputs, regulates the activity in the central amygdala (CEA) thereby controlling amygdala output and fear behavior. The model makes multiple testable predictions that may advance our understanding of fear and extinction memories.
SUMO conjugation is a key regulator of the cellular response to DNA replication stress, acting in part to control recombination at stalled DNA replication forks. Here we examine recombination-related phenotypes in yeast mutants defective for the SUMO de-conjugating/chain-editing enzyme Ulp2p. We find that spontaneous recombination is elevated in ulp2 strains and that recombination DNA repair is essential for ulp2 survival. In contrast to other SUMO pathway mutants, however, the frequency of spontaneous chromosome rearrangements is markedly reduced in ulp2 strains, and some types of rearrangements arising through recombination can apparently not be tolerated. In investigating the basis for this, we find DNA repair foci do not disassemble in ulp2 cells during recovery from the replication fork-blocking drug methyl methanesulfonate (MMS), corresponding with an accumulation of X-shaped recombination intermediates. ulp2 cells satisfy the DNA damage checkpoint during MMS recovery and commit to chromosome segregation with similar kinetics to wild-type cells. However, sister chromatids fail to disjoin, resulting in abortive chromosome segregation and cell lethality. This chromosome segregation defect can be rescued by overproducing the anti-recombinase Srs2p, indicating that recombination plays an underlying causal role in blocking chromatid separation. Overall, our results are consistent with a role for Ulp2p in preventing the formation of DNA lesions that must be repaired through recombination. At the same time, Ulp2p is also required to either suppress or resolve recombination-induced attachments between sister chromatids. These opposing defects may synergize to greatly increase the toxicity of DNA replication stress.
Mild mutations in BRCA2 (FANCD1) cause Fanconi anemia (FA) when homozygous, while severe mutations cause common cancers including breast, ovarian, and prostate cancers when heterozygous. Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis. Experiments showed that mutant embryos and mutant cells in culture experienced genome instability, as do cells in FA patients. In wild-type zebrafish, meiotic cells expressed brca2; and, unexpectedly, transcripts in oocytes localized asymmetrically to the animal pole. In juvenile brca2 mutants, oocytes failed to progress through meiosis, leading to female-to-male sex reversal. Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes, which then died by apoptosis, followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end (dnd)-knockdown males, which lack germ cells. The construction of animals doubly mutant for brca2 and the apoptotic gene tp53 (p53) rescued brca2-dependent sex reversal. Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors. Oocytes in double-mutant females showed normal localization of brca2 and pou5f1 transcripts to the animal pole and vasa transcripts to the vegetal pole, but had a polarized rather than symmetrical nucleus with the distribution of nucleoli and chromosomes to opposite nuclear poles; this result revealed a novel role for Brca2 in establishing or maintaining oocyte nuclear architecture. Mutating tp53 did not rescue the infertility phenotype in brca2 mutant males, suggesting that brca2 plays an essential role in zebrafish spermatogenesis. Overall, this work verified zebrafish as a model for the role of Brca2 in human disease and uncovered a novel function of Brca2 in vertebrate oocyte nuclear architecture.
Cilostazol, a type-3 phosphodiesterase (PDE3) inhibitor, has become widely used as an antiplatelet drug worldwide. A recent second Cilostazol Stroke Prevention Study demonstrated that cilostazol is superior to aspirin for prevention of stroke after an ischemic stroke. However, its precise mechanisms of action remain to be determined. Here, we report that cilostazol, but not the PDE3 inhibitors cilostamide and milrinone, significantly potentiated nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. Furthermore, specific inhibitors for the endoplasmic reticulum protein inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP(3)) receptors and several common signaling pathways (PLC-, PI3K, Akt, p38 MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and the Ras/Raf/ERK/MAPK) significantly blocked the potentiation of NGF-induced neurite outgrowth by cilostazol. Using a proteomics analysis, we identified that levels of eukaryotic translation elongation factor eEF1A1 protein were significantly increased by treatment with cilostazol, but not cilostamide, in PC12 cells. Moreover, the potentiating effects of cilostazol on NGF-induced neurite outgrowth were significantly antagonized by treatment with eEF1A1 RNAi, but not the negative control of eEF1A1. These findings suggest that eEF1A1 and several common cellular signaling pathways might play a role in the mechanism of cilostazol-induced neurite outgrowth. Therefore, agents that can increase the eEF1A1 protein may have therapeutic relevance in diverse conditions with altered neurite outgrowth.

Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) include seven bacterial toxins (BoNT/A-G) that target presynaptic terminals and act as proteases cleaving proteins required for synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Here we identified synaptic vesicle protein SV2 as the protein receptor for BoNT/D. BoNT/D enters cultured hippocampal neurons via synaptic vesicle recycling and can bind SV2 in brain detergent extracts. BoNT/D failed to bind and enter neurons lacking SV2, which can be rescued by expressing one of the three SV2 isoforms (SV2A/B/C). Localization of SV2 on plasma membranes mediated BoNT/D binding in both neurons and HEK293 cells. Furthermore, chimeric receptors containing the binding sites for BoNT/A and E, two other BoNTs that use SV2 as receptors, failed to mediate the entry of BoNT/D suggesting that BoNT/D binds SV2 via a mechanism distinct from BoNT/A and E. Finally, we demonstrated that gangliosides are essential for the binding and entry of BoNT/D into neurons and for its toxicity in vivo, supporting a double-receptor model for this toxin.
Addiction is a chronic brain disease. Drug addiction manifests as a compulsive obsession to use a substance despite serious detrimental and sometimes irreversible consequences. Drug addiction is not the same as drug dependency because dependency may not manifest as an addictive behavior. This problem is fundamental to understanding the disease of addiction. This article discusses the neurobiology and genetics of drug addiction.

Myosin X (MyoX), encoded by Myo10, is a representative member of the MyTH4-FERM domain-containing myosins, and this family of unconventional myosins shares common functions in promoting formation of filopodia/stereocilia structures in many cell types with unknown mechanisms. Here, we present the structure of the MyoX MyTH4-FERM tandem in complex with the cytoplasmic tail P3 domain of the netrin receptor DCC. The structure, together with biochemical studies, reveals that the MyoX MyTH4 and FERM domains interact with each other, forming a structural and functional supramodule. Instead of forming an extended -strand structure in other FERM binding targets, DCC_P3 forms a single -helix and binds to the -groove formed by 5 and 1 of the MyoX FERM F3 lobe. Structure-based amino acid sequence analysis reveals that the key polar residues forming the inter-MyTH4/FERM interface are absolutely conserved in all MyTH4-FERM tandem-containing proteins, suggesting that the supramodular nature of the MyTH4-FERM tandem is likely a general property for all MyTH4-FERM proteins.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is an inflammatory disease affecting the optic nerve and spinal cord, in which autoantibodies against aquaporin 4 (AQP4) water channel protein probably play a pathogenic role. Here we show that a B-cell subpopulation, exhibiting the CD19(int)CD27(high)CD38(high)CD180(-) phenotype, is selectively increased in the peripheral blood of NMO patients and that anti-AQP4 antibodies (AQP4-Abs) are mainly produced by these cells in the blood of these patients. These B cells showed the morphological as well as the phenotypical characteristics of plasmablasts (PB) and were further expanded during NMO relapse. We also demonstrate that interleukin 6 (IL-6), shown to be increased in NMO, enhanced the survival of PB as well as their AQP4-Ab secretion, whereas the blockade of IL-6 receptor (IL-6R) signaling by anti-IL-6R antibody reduced the survival of PB in vitro. These results indicate that the IL-6-dependent B-cell subpopulation is involved in the pathogenesis of NMO, thereby providing a therapeutic strategy for targeting IL-6R signaling.
Both the formation of long-term memory (LTM) and late-long-term potentiation (L-LTP), which is thought to represent the cellular model of learning and memory, require de novo protein synthesis. The mammalian target of Rapamycin (mTOR) complex I (mTORC1) integrates information from various synaptic inputs and its best characterized function is the regulation of translation. Although initial studies have shown that rapamycin reduces L-LTP and partially blocks LTM, recent genetic and pharmacological evidence indicating that mTORC1 promotes L-LTP and LTM is controversial. Thus, the role of mTORC1 in L-LTP and LTM is unclear. To selectively inhibit mTORC1 activity in the adult brain, we used a &quot;pharmacogenetic&quot; approach that relies on the synergistic action of a drug (rapamycin) and a genetic manipulation (mTOR heterozygotes, mTOR(+/-) mice) on the same target (mTORC1). Although L-LTP and LTM are normal in mTOR(+/-) mice, application of a low concentration of rapamycin-one that is subthreshold for WT mice-prevented L-LTP and LTM only in mTOR(+/-) mice. Furthermore, we found that mTORC1-mediated translational control is required for memory reconsolidation. We provide here direct genetic evidence supporting the role of mTORC1 in L-LTP and behavioral memory.
A central issue of neuroscience is to understand how neural units integrates internal and external signals to create coherent states. Recently, it has been shown that the sensitivity and dynamic range of neural assemblies are optimal at a critical coupling among its elements. Complex architectures of connections seem to play a constructive role on the reliable coordination of neural units. Here we show that, the synchronizability and sensitivity of excitable neural networks can be tuned by diversity in the connections strengths. We illustrate our findings for weighted networks with regular, random and complex topologies. Additional comparisons of real brain networks support previous studies suggesting that heterogeneity in the connectivity may play a constructive role on information processing. These findings provide insights into the relationship between structure and function of neural circuits.
Synchronization of the activity in neural networks is a fundamental mechanism of brain function, putatively serving the integration of computations on multiple spatial and temporal scales. Time scales are thought to be nested within distinct spatial scales, so that whereas fast oscillations may integrate local networks, slow oscillations might integrate computations across distributed brain areas. We here describe a newly developed approach that provides potential for the further substantiation of this hypothesis in future studies. We demonstrate the feasibility and important caveats of a novel wavelet-based means of relating time series of three-dimensional spatial variance (energy) of fMRI data to time series of temporal variance of EEG. The spatial variance of fMRI data was determined by employing the three-dimensional dual-tree complex wavelet transform. The temporal variance of EEG data was estimated by using traditional continuous complex wavelets. We tested our algorithm on artificial signals with known signal-to-noise ratios and on empirical resting state EEG-fMRI data obtained from four healthy human subjects. By employing the human posterior alpha rhythm as an exemplar, we demonstrated face validity of the approach. We believe that the proposed method can serve as a suitable tool for future research on the spatiotemporal properties of brain dynamics, hence moving beyond analyses based exclusively in one domain or the other.
Large-amplitude oscillations of macroscopic neuronal signals, such as local field potentials and electroencephalography or magnetoencephalography signals, are commonly considered as being generated by a population of mutually synchronized neurons. In a computational study in generic networks of phase oscillators and bursting neurons, however, we show that this common belief may be wrong if the neuronal population receives an external rhythmic input. The latter may stem from another neuronal population or an external, e.g., sensory or electrical, source. In that case the population field potential may be entrained by the rhythmic input, whereas the individual neurons are phase desynchronized both mutually and with their field potential. Intriguingly, the corresponding large-amplitude oscillations of the population mean field are generated by pairwise desynchronized neurons oscillating at frequencies shifted far away from the frequency of the macroscopic field potential.
Neuroscience time series data from a range of techniques and species reveal complex, non-linear interactions between different frequencies of neuronal network oscillations within and across brain regions. Here, we briefly review the evidence that these nested, cross-frequency interactions act in concert with linearly covariant (within-frequency) activity to dynamically coordinate functionally related neuronal ensembles during behaviour. Such studies depend upon reliable quantification of cross-frequency coordination, and we compare the properties of three techniques used to measure phase-amplitude coupling (PAC)--Envelope-to-Signal Correlation (ESC), the Modulation Index (MI) and Cross-Frequency Coherence (CFC)--by standardizing their filtering algorithms and systematically assessing their robustness to noise and signal amplitude using artificial signals. Importantly, we also introduce a freely-downloadable method for estimating statistical significance of PAC, a step overlooked in the majority of published studies. We find that varying data length and noise levels leads to the three measures differentially detecting false positives or correctly identifying frequency bands of interaction; these conditions should therefore be taken into careful consideration when selecting PAC analyses. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of the three measures in quantifying PAC in local field potential data simultaneously recorded from rat hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, revealing a novel finding of prefrontal cortical theta phase modulating hippocampal gamma power. Future adaptations that allow detection of time-variant PAC should prove essential in deciphering the roles of cross-frequency coupling in mediating or reflecting nervous system function.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is the main intermediate filament protein in mature astrocytes, but also an important component of the cytoskeleton in astrocytes during development. Major recent developments in astrocyte biology and the discovery of novel intermediate filament functions enticed the interest in the function of GFAP. The discovery of various GFAP splice variants gave an additional boost to explore this protein in more detail. The structural role of GFAP in astrocytes has been widely accepted for a long time, but over the years, GFAP has been shown to be involved in astrocyte functions, which are important during regeneration, synaptic plasticity and reactive gliosis. Moreover, different subpopulations of astrocytes have been identified, which are likely to have distinctive tasks in brain physiology and pathology, and which are not only classified by their spatial and temporal appearance, but also by their specific expression of intermediate filaments, including distinct GFAP isoforms. The presence of these isoforms enhances the complexity of the astrocyte cytoskeleton and is likely to underlie subtype specific functions. In this review we discuss the versatility of the GFAP cytoskeletal network from gene to function with a focus on astrocytes during human brain development, aging and disease.
The aim of this paper is to identify current perspectives for cell therapy applied to traumatic injuries of the central nervous system (CNS). After using diverse types of cell therapy, at present there is a growing experimental evidence that transplantation of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) can be useful to reverse the sequels of trauma affecting the brain and spinal cord. Although we still do not know many details about how these cells achieve their beneficial effects, the application of BMSC in humans, for brain or spinal cord repair, is beginning. An exquisite caution and strict methodological controls are needed to determine with certainty whether we can open a door of hope for many patients who currently suffer severe neurological deficits that are now supposedly irreversible.
The relaxin peptide family in humans consists of seven members, relaxin-1, -2 and -3 and insulin-like (INSL) peptides 3, 4, 5 and 6. It is an offshoot of the large insulin superfamily. Each member consists of two chains, commonly referred to as A and B, which are held together by two inter-chain disulfide bonds and another intra-chain disulfide bond present within the A chain. The cysteine residues present in each chain, together with the distinctive disulfide bonding pattern, are conserved across all members of the superfamily. The chemical synthesis of these complex peptides poses a significant challenge. In the past, random combination of the two synthetic S-reduced chains under oxidizing conditions was utilized to form the three disulfide bonds. Nowadays, with the aid of highly efficient solid phase peptide synthesis methodologies, in conjunction with selective S-thiol-protecting groups, combination of individual A- and B- chains by sequential chemical formation of each of the three disulfide bonds is now possible resulting in good yields of these peptides. The relaxin peptide family members bind to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) which have been classified as relaxin family peptide (RXFP) receptors. The various unique receptor-ligand interactions are outlined in this review, together with the physiological roles of the relaxin peptide family members and lastly their past and present clinical applications.
SOX2 is a key gene implicated in maintaining the stemness of embryonic and adult stem cells that appears to re-activate in several human cancers including glioblastoma multiforme. Using immunoprecipitation (IP)/MS/MS, we identified 144 proteins that are putative SOX2 interacting proteins. Of note, SOX2 was found to interact with several heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein family proteins, including HNRNPA2B1, HNRNPA3, HNRNPC, HNRNPK, HNRNPL, HNRNPM, HNRNPR, HNRNPU, as well as other ribonucleoproteins, DNA repair proteins and helicases. Gene ontology (GO) analysis revealed that the SOX2 interactome was enriched for GO terms GO:0030529 ribonucleoprotein complex and GO:0004386 helicase activity. These findings indicate that SOX2 associates with the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein complex, suggesting a possible role for SOX2 in post-transcriptional regulation in addition to its function as a transcription factor.
People are living longer than ever. With greater longevity, a critical question becomes whether or not our memories endure across the life span. This article reviews the common forms of age-related memory change and the emerging evidence related to putative risk and protective factors for brain aging. With increasing awareness of Alzheimer disease and related dementias, patients, families, and clinicians are eager for concise and accurate information about the effects and limitations of preventative strategies related to lifestyle choices that may improve cognitive health.

Robust scientific evidence shows that mental, emotional, and behavioral disorders can be prevented before they begin. This article highlights and expands points from a 2009 Institute of Medicine report to provide a concise summary of the literature on preventing mental illness. Because prevention requires intervention before the onset of illness, effective preventive approaches are often interdisciplinary and developmental. Evidence-based preventive strategies are discussed for the different phases of a young person's life. Specific recommendations to focus on parenting, child development, and the prevention of depression are made for a target audience of practicing psychiatrists and mental health professionals. Further systemic recommendations are to prioritize prevention and to coordinate and facilitate research on preventive practices in order to reduce suffering, create healthier families, and save money.


This study assessed motor limits of regular tapping, timing error detection, and correction in 60 participants aged from 19 to 98 years. Rate limitations on motor production were estimated from the average inter-tap interval when tapping as fast as possible for 30 s. Timing error detection required participants to judge whether a sound sequence presented at a slow, intermediate, or fast speed contained an irregularity because of phase shift. This was performed with or without synchronizing to the sounds. On the basis of the just-detectable positive phase shift (JND), participants synchronized with sequences containing phase shifts that were subliminal, just detectable or supraliminal. On average, JNDs were 9% of the inter-onset interval and by and large were not affected by synchronization tapping. Speed of error correction was estimated from the number of tones to return within 20% of the preshift synchronization error. Consistent with previous findings of motor slowing with aging, the fastest inter-tap interval increased with age. However, there was no age-related decline in JNDs or speed of error correction, both of which reflect predictive abilities for intervals within the motor repertoire of human adults. These results point towards intact timing error processing up to an advanced age. In assessing timing abilities in the brain of older adults, it is important to differentiate between motor slowing and its impact on rhythmic behavior (e.g., walking pace) from anticipatory mechanisms ('what to expect when') and how these are used to adjust the timing of actions ('what to do when').



The perception of even the most elementary features of the visual environment depends strongly on their spatial context. In the study reported here, we asked at what level of abstraction such effects require conscious processing of the context. We compared two visual illusions that alter subjective judgments of brightness: the simultaneous brightness contrast illusion, in which two circles of identical physical brightness appear different because of different surround luminance, and the Kanizsa triangle illusion, which occurs when the visual system extrapolates a surface without actual physical stimulation. We used a novel interocular masking technique that allowed us to selectively render only the context invisible. Simultaneous brightness contrast persisted even when the surround was masked from awareness. In contrast, participants did not experience illusory contours when the inducing context was masked. Our findings show that invisible context is resolvable by low-level processes involved in surface-brightness perception, but not by high-level processes that assign surface borders through perceptual completion.
Pain is a complex subjective experience that is shaped by numerous contextual factors. For example, simply viewing the body reduces the reported intensity of acute physical pain. In this study, we investigated whether this visually induced analgesia is modulated by the visual size of the stimulated body part. We measured contact heat-pain thresholds while participants viewed either their own hand or a neutral object in three size conditions: reduced, actual size, or enlarged. Vision of the body was analgesic, increasing heat-pain thresholds by an average of 3.2 C. We further found that visual enlargement of the viewed hand enhanced analgesia, whereas visual reduction of the hand decreased analgesia. These results demonstrate that pain perception depends on multisensory representations of the body and that visual distortions of body size modulate sensory components of pain.






To study the influence of musical education on emotional reactions to dissonance, we examined self-reports and physiological responses to dissonant and consonant musical excerpts in listeners with low (LE: n=15) and high (HE: n=13) musical experience. The results show that dissonance induces more unpleasant feelings and stronger physiological responses in HE than in LE participants, suggesting that musical education reinforces aversion to dissonance. Skin conductance (SCR) and electromyographic (EMG) signals were analyzed according to a defense cascade model, which takes into account two successive time windows corresponding to orienting and defense responses. These analyses suggest that musical experience can influence the defense response to dissonance and demonstrate a powerful role of musical experience not only in autonomic but also in expressive responses to music.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the development of psychotherapists' professional self during training and the first few years after it. Constant comparison analysis was conducted on interviews with former students (N = 18) at a training institute for psychoanalytic psychotherapy. The resulting core category &quot;searching for recognition&quot; indicated that participants' ambition during the studied time period was to reach high status by becoming psychotherapists. During training, this was expressed by the category &quot;attachment to preformed professional self,&quot; meaning that students wanted their preconceptions about therapy to be acknowledged by teachers. After training, participants experienced achieved recognition and, as a result, a sense of freedom to use their own judgment.
The role of the interaction between neurons and glial cells in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases is gaining more attention. Neuroinflammation participates in the progressive nature of diverse neurologic diseases including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis. Activated microglia release neurotoxic molecules, which take part in the neuroinflammatory responses. Astrocytes are also key players in these responses. Reactive astrocytes secrete inflammatory factors, including tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-). This secretion can be regulated by extracellular ATP mediated through P2X7 receptors. However, whether the activity of astrocytic P2X7 receptors changes in Parkinson's disease and whether these changes would influence the secretion of inflammatory factors in astrocytes are still unclear. In our study, through immunocytochemistry, whole-cell patch clamp and ELISA assay, we found that P2X7 receptors were expressed in midbrain astrocytes, and that, rotenone, a Parkinson's disease model used at a low concentration (2-20nM) for 48h increased the P2X7 receptor current density and thereby inhibited the secretion of TNF-. Our research suggests that rotenone can regulate cytokine secretion of astrocytes through elevated P2X7 channel current density and, in turn, take part in the neuroinflammatory process in the rotenone Parkinson's disease model.
Fundamental to adaptive behaviour is the ability to select environmental objects that best satisfy current needs and preferences. Here we investigated whether temporary changes in food preference influence visual selective attention. To this end, we exploited the fact that when a food is eaten to satiety its motivational value and perceived pleasantness decrease relative to other foods not eaten in the meal, an effect termed sensory-specific satiety. A total of 26 hungry participants were fed until sated with one of two palatable foods. Before and after selective satiation, participants rated the pleasantness of the two foods and then viewed the same as stimuli on a computer screen while attention was assessed by a visual probe task. Results showed that the attentional bias for the food eaten decreased markedly from pre- to postsatiety, along with the subjective pleasantness for that food. By contrast, subjective pleasantness and attentional bias for the food not eaten did not show any such decrease. These findings suggest that the allocation of visual selective attention is flexibly and rapidly adjusted to reflect temporary shift in relative preference for different foods.
Cranial radiotherapy during the treatment of pediatric malignancies may cause adverse late effects. It is important to find methods to assess the functional effects of ionizing radiation in animal models and to evaluate the possible ameliorating effects of preventive or reparative treatment strategies. We investigated the long-term effects of a single 8-Gy radiation dose to the brains of 14-day-old mice. Activity and learning were evaluated in adulthood using open field and trace fear conditioning (TFC). These established methods were compared with the novel IntelliCage platform, which enables unbiased analysis of both activity and learning over time in a home cage environment. Neither activity nor learning was changed after irradiation, as judged by the open field and TFC analyses. The IntelliCage, however, revealed both altered activity and learning impairment after irradiation. Place learning and reversal learning were both impaired in the IntelliCage 3 months after irradiation. These results indicate that activity and learning should be assessed using multiple methods and that unbiased analysis over time in a home cage environment may offer advantages in the detection of subtle radiation-induced effects on the young brain.

Mice with mutations in the kisspeptin signaling pathway (Kiss1(-/-) or Gpr54(-/-)) have low gonadotrophic hormone levels, small testes, and impaired spermatogenesis. Between 2 and 7 months of age, however, the testes of the mutant mice increase in weight and in Gpr54(-/-) mice, the number of seminiferous tubules containing spermatids/spermatozoa increases from 17 to 78%. In contrast, the Kiss1(-/-) mice have a less severe defect in spermatogenesis and larger testes than Gpr54(-/-) mice at both 2 and 7 months of age. The reason for the improved spermatogenesis was investigated. Plasma testosterone and FSH levels did not increase with age in the mutant mice and remained much lower than in wild-type (WT) mice. In contrast, intratesticular testosterone levels were similar between mutant and WT mice. These data indicate that age-related spermatogenesis can be completed under conditions of low plasma testosterone and FSH and that intratesticular testosterone may contribute to this process. In addition, however, when the Gpr54(-/-) mice were fed a phytoestrogen-free diet, they showed no age-related increase in testes weight or improved spermatogenesis. Thus, both genetic and environmental factors are involved in the improved spermatogenesis in the mutant mice as they age although the mice still remain infertile. These data show that the possible impact of dietary phytoestrogens should be taken into account when studying the phenotype of mutant mice with defects in the reproductive axis.
Auditory processing problems in persons with dyslexia are still subject to debate, and one central issue concerns the specific nature of the deficit. In particular, it is questioned whether the deficit is specific to speech and/or specific to temporal processing. To resolve this issue, a categorical perception identification task was administered in thirteen 11-year old dyslexic readers and 25 matched normal readers using 4 sound continua: (1) a speech contrast exploiting temporal cues (/bA/-/dA/), (2) a speech contrast defined by nontemporal spectral cues (/u/-/y/), (3) a nonspeech temporal contrast (spectrally rotated/bA/-/da/), and (4) a nonspeech nontemporal contrast (spectrally rotated/u/-/y/). Results indicate that children with dyslexia are less consistent in classifying speech and nonspeech sounds on the basis of rapidly changing (i.e., temporal) information whereas they are unimpaired in steady-state speech and nonspeech sounds. The deficit is thus restricted to categorizing sounds on the basis of temporal cues and is independent of the speech status of the stimuli. The finding of a temporal-specific but not speech-specific deficit in children with dyslexia is in line with findings obtained in adults using the same paradigm (Vandermosten et al., 2010, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 107: 10389-10394). Comparison of the child and adult data indicates that the consistency of categorization considerably improves between late childhood and adulthood, particularly for the continua with temporal cues. Dyslexic and normal readers show a similar developmental progress with the dyslexic readers lagging behind both in late childhood and in adulthood.
The predominant models on the emergence and maintenance of stereotypy in individuals with developmental disabilities are based on operant and neurobiological interpretations of the behavior. Although the proponents of the two models maintain largely independent lines of research, operant and neurobiological interpretations of stereotypy are not mutually exclusive. The paper reviews the two models of stereotypy and proposes an integrated model using recent findings on the neurobiology of reinforcement. The dopaminergic system and the basal ganglia are both involved in stereotypy and in reinforcement, which provides a potential link between the models. Implications of the integrated model for future research are discussed in terms of improving the assessment and treatment of stereotypy in individuals with developmental disabilities.
Developmental dyslexia is characterized by severe reading and spelling difficulties that are persistent and resistant to the usual didactic measures and remedial efforts. It is well established that a major cause of these problems lies in poorly specified phonological representations. Many individuals with dyslexia also present impairments in auditory temporal processing and speech perception, but it remains debated whether these more basic perceptual impairments play a role in causing the reading problem. Longitudinal studies may help clarifying this issue by assessing preschool children before they receive reading instruction and by following them up through literacy development. The current longitudinal study shows impairments in auditory frequency modulation (FM) detection, speech perception and phonological awareness in kindergarten and in grade 1 in children who receive a dyslexia diagnosis in grade 3. FM sensitivity and speech-in-noise perception in kindergarten uniquely contribute to growth in reading ability, even after controlling for letter knowledge and phonological awareness. These findings indicate that impairments in auditory processing and speech perception are not merely an epiphenomenon of reading failure. Although no specific directional relations were observed between auditory processing, speech perception and phonological awareness, the highly significant concurrent and predictive correlations between all these variables suggest a reciprocal association and corroborate the evidence for the auditory deficit theory of dyslexia.
Developmental coordination disorder (DCD) is a neuro-developmental disorder characterized by poor fine and/or gross motor coordination. Children with DCD are hypothesized to be at increased risk for overweight and obesity from inactivity due to their motor coordination problems. Although previous studies have found evidence to support this hypothesis, their reliance on field-based measures, most notably body mass index (BMI), to determine body composition is problematic. Moreover, there has been no research to date that has examined whether THERE ARE differences in lean tissue mass between children with and without coordination. Differences in muscle mass, the main component of lean tissue, may be a contributing factor to both coordination problems and the development of overweight and obesity, but has only been indirectly examined at this time. In this study, whole-body air displacement using a dual chamber plethysmograph was used to estimate fat mass, fat free mass and body fat in children with probable DCD (pDCD) and a group of typically developing children. Consistent with previous research using field-based assessments of relative body weight, the results show that children with pDCD have much higher body fat than their peers, and that this difference increases with the severity of observed motor coordination difficulties. There was no difference in lean tissue mass between groups. The demonstration of an association between pDCD and body fat using a more sensitive measure of body composition, and evidence showing a dose-response in this relationship, further supports the hypothesis that DCD may be a risk factor for obesity in children.
Functional connectivity can be measured during task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), or in the absence of specific stimuli or tasks. In either case, the study of low frequency fluctuations in the BOLD signal reveals patterns of synchronization which delineate the intrinsic functional architecture of the brain. The scientific community now has available shared resources to accelerate the exploitation of resting state fMRI with the objectives of improving diagnostic methods and leading to better treatments grounded in neuroscience. Fomenting a collaborative scientific culture will accelerate our understanding of the underlying phenonmemna. Recently, the Spanish Resting State Network (SRSN) has joined this collaborative effort by creating a setting to facilitate collaboration among the various neuroscience research groups working in Spanish (http://www.nitrc.org/projects/srsn).
Most research about psychopathy have been conducted on adults. It is important to focus on the study of psychopathy in children to better understand the evolution of this disorder. This article focuses on a brief review of the contributions from psychology, where trait callous unemotional is closely related to the presence of antisocial behavior and conduct disorders, therefore, is an important factor in development of psychopathy. Also, we reviewed from the perspective of neuroscience where we found a reduced response of the amygdala in young people with presence of characteristic high scores on callous unemotional and psychopathy. We have also found an abnormal response in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. It is important to note these results because children with these characteristics are very difficult to socialize.
Methylphenidate and the amphetamines are the most frequently used medications for treating attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). These medications modulate both norepinephrine as well as dopamine. Methyl-phenidate is a pure blocker of the norepinephrine and dopamine transporters. The amphetamines also block reuptake of both catecholamines, but they also release all three monoamines, norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin, from presynaptic vesicles. Amphetamines are the most robust agents in increasing synaptic dopamine levels, since they do so regardless of the endogenous level of the relevant neurons. Stimulant-evoked synaptic increases of dopamine have been demonstrated in the striatum in humans, but pharmacologic effects are likely relevant to therapeutic action in other regions, particularly the prefrontal cortex. Blockade of noradrenergic reuptake in the prefrontal cortex may also indirectly increase prefrontal dopamine levels, but there is also evidence that noradrenergic effects are mediated by alpha-2a noradrenergic receptors. A recent study in non-human primates found that methylphenidate and atomoxetine both increased the efficiency of prefrontal pyramidal neurons, but via distinct mechanisms. Methylphenidate decreased non-specific signals, i.e., neuronal noise, via D1 receptors. By contrast, atomoxetine increased the strength of specific signals via activation of alpha-2 receptors. These findings, although in non-human primates, suggest that combinations of agents working on these complementary systems (D1 and alpha-2a) may be worth considering and evaluating rigorously in patients with ADHD with sub-optimal responses to monotherapy.


mRNA decapping is a crucial step in the regulation of mRNA stability and gene expression. Dcp2 is an mRNA decapping enzyme that has been widely studied. We recently reported the presence of a second mammalian cytoplasmic decapping enzyme, Nudt16. Here we address the differential utilization of the two decapping enzymes in specified mRNA decay processes. Using mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) cell lines derived from a hypomorphic knockout of the Dcp2 gene with undetectable levels of Dcp2 or MEF cell lines harboring a Nudt16-directed shRNA to generate reduced levels of Nudt16, we demonstrate the distinct roles for Dcp2 and Nudt16 in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), decay of ARE-containing mRNA and miRNA-mediated silencing. Our results indicated that NMD preferentially utilizes Dcp2 rather than Nudt16; Dcp2 and Nudt16 are redundant in miRNA-mediated silencing; and Dcp2 and Nudt16 are differentially utilized for ARE-mRNA decay. These data demonstrate that the two distinct decapping enzymes can uniquely function in specific mRNA decay processes in mammalian cells.
In 2009, the Center for Strategic Analysis initiated a study, entitled Neurosciences and Public Policies, to assess the use of neurosciences in prevention policy. Subsequently, a report highlighted the inefficiency of the &quot;traditional&quot; prevention programs and the potential contribution of neurosciences to defining a new prevention approach. For the French National Federation for Health Education and Promotion, health promotion cannot be limited to a &quot;counter-manipulation&quot; of consumers confronted with marketing strategies from the food and tobacco industries. Promoting health helps people increase control over the determinants of their health, by means of educational empowering strategies.

Individuals from academia, the pharmaceutical industry, and the US Food and Drug Administration used a workshop format to discuss important methodological issues in the design of trials of pharmacological agents for improving negative symptoms in schizophrenia. The issues addressed included the need for a coprimary functional measure for registration trials; the characteristics of individuals who should enter negative symptom trials; the optimal duration for a proof-of-concept or registration trial; the optimal design of a study of a broad-spectrum agent that treats both positive and negative symptoms or a co-medication that is added to an antipsychotic; the relative strengths and weaknesses of available instruments for measuring negative symptoms; the definition of clinically meaningful improvement for these trials; and whether drugs can be approved for a subdomain of negative symptoms.
The MATRICS Psychometric and Standardization Study was conducted as a final stage in the development of the MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB). The study included 176 persons with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and 300 community residents. Data were analyzed to examine the cognitive profile of clinically stable schizophrenia patients on the MCCB. Secondarily, the data were analyzed to identify which combination of cognitive domains and corresponding cut-off scores best discriminated patients from community residents, and patients competitively employed vs. those not. Raw scores on the ten MCCB tests were entered into the MCCB scoring program which provided age- and gender-corrected T-scores on seven cognitive domains. To test for between-group differences, we conducted a 2 (group)7 (cognitive domain) MANOVA with follow-up independent t-tests on the individual domains. Classification and regression trees (CART) were used for the discrimination analyses. Examination of patient T-scores across the seven cognitive domains revealed a relatively compact profile with T-scores ranging from 33.4 for speed of processing to 39.3 for reasoning and problem-solving. Speed of processing and social cognition best distinguished individuals with schizophrenia from community residents; speed of processing along with visual learning and attention/vigilance optimally distinguished patients competitively employed from those who were not. The cognitive profile findings provide a standard to which future studies can compare results from other schizophrenia samples and related disorders; the classification results point to specific areas and levels of cognitive impairment that may advance work rehabilitation efforts.



Several studies in schizophrenia found a positive association between cognitive performance and work status, and it has been reported that good cognitive performance at the outset does predict the success of vocational interventions. However little has been done to investigate whether vocational interventions itself benefit cognitive performance. To test this hypothesis we performed a randomized, placebo-controlled trial to investigate in remitted schizophrenic patients the effect of a 6-months vocational rehabilitation program on cognitive performance. We recruited 112 remitted and clinically stable schizophrenic patients who aimed to enter a vocational rehabilitation program. From these, 57 immediately entered a 6-months vocational rehabilitation program, whereas the remaining 55 were allocated to a waiting-list; the latter formed our control group, which received during the 6 months out-clinic follow-up treatment. Before and after the 6-months period we assessed changes in cognitive performance through a neuropsychological test battery, as well as changes in the psychopathological status and in quality of life. We found that vocational rehabilitation significantly improved patients' performance in cognitive measures that assess executive functions (concept formation, shifting ability, flexibility, inhibitory control, and judgment and critics abilities). Moreover, after 6 months the vocational group improved significantly in the negative symptoms and in quality of life, as compared to controls. Together with results from the literature, our findings reinforce the notion that the inclusion of vocational interventions may enhance the effectiveness of therapeutic strategies for schizophrenia patients.


Prenatal alcohol exposure is a major, preventable cause of behavioral and cognitive deficits in children. Despite extensive research, a unique neurobehavioral profile for children affected by prenatal alcohol exposure remains elusive. A fundamental question that must be addressed is how genetic and environmental factors interact with gestational alcohol exposure to produce neurobehavioral and neurobiological deficits in children. The core objectives of the NeuroDevNet team in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders is to create an integrated research program of basic and clinical investigations that will (1) identify genetic and epigenetic modifications that may be predictive of the neurobehavioral and neurobiological dysfunctions in offspring induced by gestational alcohol exposure and (2) determine the relationship between structural alterations in the brain induced by gestational alcohol exposure and functional outcomes in offspring. The overarching hypothesis to be tested is that neurobehavioral and neurobiological dysfunctions induced by gestational alcohol exposure are correlated with the genetic background of the affected child and/or epigenetic modifications in gene expression. The identification of genetic and/or epigenetic markers that are predictive of the severity of behavioral and cognitive deficits in children affected by gestational alcohol exposure will have a profound impact on our ability to identify children at risk.
Enhancing Canadian capacity in the research and treatment for neurodevelopmental disorders is central to NeuroDevNet's mission. Building on the notion that it takes a network of scientists, clinicians, and educators to train the next generation researchers, NeuroDevNet brings together the diversity of expertise from across Canada to provide multifaceted, cross-disciplinary training opportunities for our trainees. Our Program provides for a diverse training experience that fosters the development of active young researchers with a collaborative focus and an eye toward the bidirectional translation of knowledge between the bench and the bedside. With funding from the NCE of Canada, as well as public and private partnerships, we offer fellowship and internship opportunities to trainees that encourage collaborative interactions, interdisciplinary exchanges and knowledge translation. This program will enhance the development and integration of NeuroDevNet as well as the Canadian community caring for the health and wellbeing of its citizens with neurodevelopmental disorders.
The management structure of NeuroDevNet is a key feature of this collaborative enterprise. To a large extent this structure is prescribed by the funding agency, the Network of Centres of Excellence, but its operability is critically dependent on key elements such as an engaged Board of Directors and complementary activities of the Scientific and Executive Directors. The support of the Projects and Cores by the NeuroDevNet administrative team is geared toward building a network mentality. NeuroDevNet has a lean administrative staff that works with the Board and its research members to reach out to involve care-givers, families and children, policy makers and other researchers. By this means we hope to build a progressive and sustainable organization that helps support efforts toward improved outcomes in children with neurodevelopmental disorders.


Neuroscientific research into mental health commands generous funding, suggesting neuroscience is understood by a variety of actors and institutions as having significant potential to enhance the therapeutic practices of psychiatrists. This article interrogates this 'therapeutic promise' of neuroscience through the case study of the psychiatric condition personality disorder. Specifically, the focus is on the promissory discourse of clinicians specialising in the management of two variants of personality disorder--antisocial personality disorder and psychopathy--and researchers investigating the neurobiology of these constructs. The article discusses the respondents' ambivalent expectations regarding the therapeutic promise of brain research, and shows how these are structured by understandings of the ontology of personality disorder. In turn, these ambivalences direct our attention to practical issues surrounding the potential of neuroscience to translate into and enhance clinical practice, as well as theoretical concerns revolving around the place and role of the biological within contemporary neuroscience, psychiatry and psychology. In sum, the necessity of large material and symbolic investments in neuroscience should, perhaps, be reflected upon more critically, and analytic encounters with this discipline must keep in mind it's at times surprising commitment to the realms of the social and the psychological.


Ankle injuries, especially ankle sprains, are a common problem in sports and medical care. Ankle sprains result in pain and absenteeism from work and/or sports participation, and can lead to physical restrictions such as ankle instability. Nowadays, treatment of ankle injury basically consists of taping the ankle. The purpose of this review is to evaluate the effectiveness of ankle braces as a treatment for acute ankle sprains compared with other types of functional treatments such as ankle tape and elastic bandages. A computerized literature search was conducted using PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL and the Cochrane Clinical Trial Register. This review includes randomized controlled trials in English, German and Dutch, published between 1990 and April 2009 that compared ankle braces as a treatment for lateral ankle sprains with other functional treatments. The inclusion criteria for this systematic review were (i) individuals (sports participants as well as non-sports participants) with an acute injury of the ankle (acute ankle sprains); (ii) use of an ankle brace as primary treatment for acute ankle sprains; (iii) control interventions including any other type of functional treatment (e.g. Tubigrip, elastic wrap or ankle tape); and (iv) one of the following reported outcome measures: re-injuries, symptoms (pain, swelling, instability), functional outcomes and/or time to resumption of sports, daily activities and/or work. Eight studies met all inclusion criteria. Differences in outcome measures, intervention types and patient characteristics precluded pooling of the results, so best evidence syntheses were conducted. A few individual studies reported positive outcomes after treatment with an ankle brace compared with other functional methods, but our best evidence syntheses only demonstrated a better treatment result in terms of functional outcome. Other studies have suggested that ankle brace treatment is a more cost-effective method, so the use of braces after acute ankle sprains should be considered. Further research should focus on economic evaluation and on different types of ankle brace, to examine the strengths and weaknesses of ankle braces for the treatment of acute ankle sprains.
Mechanisms underlying neural stem cell proliferation, differentiation and maturation play a critical role in the formation and wiring of neuronal connections. This process involves the activation of multiple serial events, which guide the undifferentiated cells to different lineages via distinctive developmental programs, forming neuronal circuits and thus shaping the adult nervous system. Furthermore, alterations within these strictly regulated pathways can lead to severe neurological and psychiatric diseases. In this framework, the investigation of the high dynamic protein expression changes and other factors affecting protein functions, for example post-translational modifications, the alterations of protein interaction networks, is of pivotal importance for the understanding of the molecular mechanisms responsible for cell differentiation. More recently, proteomic studies in neuroscience (&quot;neuroproteomics&quot;) are receiving increased interest for the primary understanding of the regulatory networks underlying neuronal differentiation processes. Besides the classical two-dimensional-based proteomic strategies, the emerging platforms for LC-MS shotgun proteomic analysis hold great promise in unraveling the molecular basis of neural stem cell differentiation. In this review, recent advancements in label-free LC-MS quantitative neuroproteomics are highlighted as a new tool for the study of neural differentiation and functions, in comparison to mass spectrometry-based labeling approaches. The more commonly used protein profiling strategies and model systems for the analysis of neural differentiation are also discussed, along with the challenging proteomic approaches aimed to analyze the nervous system-specific organelles, the neural cells secretome and the specific protein interaction networks.
The main purpose of this study was to evaluate the vergence adaptive ability in subjects diagnosed with convergence excess (CE) phoria (ie, subjects with an esophoric shift from distance to near but without an intermittent tropia at near). Vergence adaptation was measured at far and near with both base-in and base-out prisms using a &quot;flashed&quot; Maddox rod technique in 20 control subjects and 16 subjects with CE. In addition, accommodative adaptation and the stimulus AC/A and CA/C cross-links were measured. The AC/A and CA/C ratios were found to be high and low, respectively, and accommodative adaptation was found to be reduced in CE subjects as compared with the controls (P&lt;0.005), all as predicted by the present theory. However, vergence adaptive ability was found to be reduced in the CE subjects at both distance and near and in response to both base-in and base-out prisms (P=0.002). This finding is not in accordance with and is difficult to reconcile with the present theory of CE.
Palatable food intake reduces stress responses, suggesting that individuals may consume such ?comfort? food as self-medication for stress relief. The mechanism by which palatable foods provide stress relief is not known, but likely lies at the intersection of forebrain reward and stress regulatory circuits. Forebrain opioidergic and gamma-aminobutyric acid ergic signaling is critical for both reward and stress regulation, suggesting that these systems are prime candidates for mediating stress relief by palatable foods. Thus, the present study (1) determines how palatable ?comfort? food alters stress-induced changes in the mRNA expression of inhibitory neurotransmitters in reward and stress neurocircuitry and (2) identifies candidate brain regions that may underlie comfort food-mediated stress reduction. We used a model of palatable ?snacking? in combination with a model of chronic variable stress followed by in situ hybridization to determine forebrain levels of pro-opioid and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) mRNA. The data identify regions within the extended amygdala, striatum, and hypothalamus as potential regions for mediating hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis buffering following palatable snacking. Specifically, palatable snacking alone decreased pro-enkephalin-A (ENK) mRNA expression in the anterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) and the nucleus accumbens, and decreased GAD65 mRNA in the posterior BST. Chronic stress alone increased ENK mRNA in the hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, and hippocampus; increased dynorphin mRNA in the nucleus accumbens; increased GAD65 mRNA in the anterior hypothalamus and BST; and decreased GAD65 mRNA in the dorsal hypothalamus. Importantly, palatable food intake prevented stress-induced gene expression changes in subregions of the hypothalamus, BST, and nucleus accumbens. Overall, these data suggest that complex interactions exist between brain reward and stress pathways and that palatable snacking can mitigate many of the neurochemical alterations induced by chronic stress.
Despite research regarding emotional processing, it is still unclear whether fear-evoking stimuli are processed when they are irrelevant and when attention is oriented elsewhere. In this study, 63 healthy university students with high fear from snakes or spiders participated in two different experiments. In an emotional modification of the spatial cueing task, 31 subjects (5 males) were asked to detect a target letter while ignoring a neutral or fear-related distracting picture. The distribution of attention was independently manipulated by a spatial cue that preceded the appearance of the picture and the target letter. In an emotional modification of the cognitive load paradigm, 32 subjects (4 males) were asked to discriminate between two target letters, while ignoring a central neutral or fear-related picture, and additional 1, 3, or 5 distracting letters that created a varied attentional load. Fear-related pictures interfered with the performance of highly fearful participants, even when the pictures were presented outside the focus of attention and when the task taxed attentional resources. We suggest that highly fearful individuals process fear-related information automatically, either inattentively or with prioritized attention capture over competing items, leading to deteriorated cognitive performance. Different results were shown in healthy individuals while processing negative--but not phobic--pictures, suggesting that emotional processing depends on the fear value of the stimulus for a specific observer.
Stress has been identified as a main factor involved in the cognitive changes that occur during the aging process. This study investigated sex differences in the relationship between the magnitude of the acute stress-induced salivary cortisol response and memory performance among middle-aged people. To this end, 16 men and 16 women (aged 54-72 years) were exposed to the Trier Social Stress Test and a control condition in a crossover design. Afterwards their memory performance was measured using a standardized memory test (Rey's Auditory Verbal Learning Test). Only among women, there was an acute impact of stress on memory performance and a significant relationship between a higher cortisol response to the stressor and poorer memory performance in both the stress and control conditions. Additionally, a poorer memory performance was related to earlier timing of sexual maturation (age at menarche), which was also marginally related to higher cortisol reactivity to stress. These results confirm that sex is a critical factor in the relationship between cortisol and poor memory performance. Furthermore, the findings emphasize a strong link between the individual cortisol response to stress and memory functioning among postmenopausal women.





Schizophrenia (SZ) is a severe mental illness with neuropathology in many regions, including the striatum. The typical symptoms of this disease are psychosis (such as hallucinations and delusions), cognitive impairments, and the deficit syndrome. Not all patients respond to treatment and, in those who do, only psychotic symptoms are improved. Imaging studies support a biological distinction between treatment response and resistance, but postmortem examinations of this issue are rare. This study tests the hypotheses that abnormalities in mitochondria, the energy producing organelles in the cell, may correlate with treatment response. Postmortem striatal tissue was obtained from the Maryland Brain Collection. The density of mitochondria (in various neuropil compartments) and the number of mitochondria per synapse (all types of synapses combined) were tallied using electron microscopy and stereology in striatum from SZ subjects (rated treatment responsive or not) and normal controls. The number of mitochondria per synapse was significantly different among groups for both the caudate nucleus (P &lt; 0.025) and putamen (P &lt; 0.002). Compared to controls, treatment-responsive SZ subjects had a 37-43% decrease in the number of mitochondria per synapse in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In the putamen, treatment-responsive subjects also had decreases in this measure compared to treatment-resistant subjects (34%). Our results provide further support for a biological distinction between treatment response and treatment resistance in SZ. Because treatment responders have fewer mitochondria per synapse than controls, although the treatment-resistant subjects have similar results to that of controls, fewer mitochondria per synapse may be related to treatment response.
Transarterial embolization of head and neck tumors can be done for a variety of indications, including tumoral epistaxis and high-output cardiac failure, but is mainly done before surgical resection. This technique offers higher surgical cure rates and faster recovery, while decreasing surgical morbidity by curtailing blood loss and reducing the duration of surgery. Patients with epistaxis are considered for endovascular management when they have failed conservative management, including topical vasoconstrictors, cautery, and nasal packing (anterior and posterior). Sudden arterial bleeding in patients undergoing transsphenoidal or maxillofacial surgery is also considered an indication for endovascular management. If performed with the appropriate attention, endovascular management of epistaxis is highly effective with a low risk of complications.
The present study aimed to investigate the interaction between the Ser447Term polymorphism in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene and some common risk factors for stroke. A total of 704 unrelated patients with ischemic stroke were recruited for genetic analysis; they were all of Han Chinese origin. These patients were classified into subgroups based on their exposure to stroke-related risk factors, including type 2 diabetes, hypertension, smoking, and hyperlipidemia. The Ser447Term polymorphism was genotyped by PCR-based restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. The chi-square ( (2)) test showed that the frequency of Ser447Term G allele was significantly higher in stroke patients with a history of diabetes than in those without a history of diabetes ( (2)=7.25, P=0.007, OR=1.78, 95%CI 1.18-2.68). Allelic association was not observed in patients exposed to the other three stroke-related risk factors. The combined effect of the LPL gene polymorphisms and diabetes may contribute to the development of a subgroup of ischemic stroke.
Cognitive neuroscience investigations of self-experience have mainly focused on the mental attribution of features to the self (self-related processing). In this paper, we highlight another fundamental, yet neglected, aspect of self-experience, that of being an agent. We propose that this aspect of self-experience depends on self-specifying processes, ones that implicitly specify the self by implementing a functional self/non-self distinction in perception, action, cognition and emotion. We describe two paradigmatic cases - sensorimotor integration and homeostatic regulation - and use the principles from these cases to show how cognitive control, including emotion regulation, is also self-specifying. We argue that externally directed, attention-demanding tasks, rather than suppressing self-experience, give rise to the self-experience of being a cognitive-affective agent. We conclude with directions for experimental work based on our framework.
Self-regulatory failure is a core feature of many social and mental health problems. Self-regulation can be undermined by failures to transcend overwhelming temptations, negative moods and resource depletion, and when minor lapses in self-control snowball into self-regulatory collapse. Cognitive neuroscience research suggests that successful self-regulation is dependent on top-down control from the prefrontal cortex over subcortical regions involved in reward and emotion. We highlight recent neuroimaging research on self-regulatory failure, the findings of which support a balance model of self-regulation whereby self-regulatory failure occurs whenever the balance is tipped in favor of subcortical areas, either due to particularly strong impulses or when prefrontal function itself is impaired. Such a model is consistent with recent findings in the cognitive neuroscience of addictive behavior, emotion regulation and decision-making.
Two decades have passed since the first report of the cloning of a kainate-type glutamate receptor (KAR) subunit. The intervening years have seen a rapid growth in our understanding of the biophysical properties and function of KARs in the brain. This research has led to an appreciation that KARs play very distinct roles at synapses relative to other members of the glutamate-gated ion channel receptor family, despite structural and functional commonalities. The surprisingly diverse and complex nature of KAR signaling underlies their unique impact upon neuronal networks through their direct and indirect effects on synaptic transmission, and their prominent role in regulating cell excitability. This review pieces together highlights from the two decades of research subsequent to the cloning of the first subunit, and provides an overview of our current understanding of the role of KARs in the CNS and their potential importance to neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders.

The Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being Scale (WEMWBS) was evaluated as an indicator of mental health and well-being within the veterinary profession in a cross-sectional study among a representative sample of 3200 veterinary surgeons practising in the UK. The WEMWBS mean score for the sample was 48.85 (95% confidence interval 48.43-49.28). The score showed a negative correlation with anxiety and depressive symptoms and a positive correlation with favourable psychosocial working conditions. A 1 unit increase in score was associated with reduced odds of reporting having experienced suicidal thoughts in the previous 12 months, and reduced odds of reporting depressive or anxiety symptoms of clinical significance. The results support the validity of the scale as an overall indicator of population mental health and well-being for this occupational group.
The cerebellar cortex has a fundamental parasagittal organization that is apparent in the physiological response properties of Purkinje cells (PCs) and the expression of several molecular markers such as zebrin II (ZII). ZII is heterogeneously expressed in PCs such that there are sagittal stripes of high expression [ZII immunopositive (ZII+)] interdigitated with stripes of little or no expression [ZII immunonegative (ZII-)]. Several studies in rodents have suggested that climbing fiber (CF) afferents from an individual subnucleus in the inferior olive project to either ZII+ or ZII- stripes but not both. In this report, we show that this is not the case in the pigeon flocculus. The flocculus (the lateral half of folia IXcd and X) receives visual-optokinetic information and is important for generating compensatory eye movements to facilitate gaze stabilization. Previous electrophysiological studies from our lab have shown that the pigeon flocculus consists of four parasagittal zones: 0, 1, 2, and 3. PC complex spike activity (CSA), which reflects CF input, in zones 0 and 2 responds best to rotational optokinetic stimuli about the vertical axis (VA zones), whereas CSA in zones 1 and 3 responds best to rotational optokinetic stimuli about the horizontal axis (HA zones). In addition, folium IXcd consists of seven pairs of ZII+/- stripes. Here, we recorded CSA of floccular PCs to optokinetic stimuli, marked recording locations, and subsequently visualized ZII expression in the flocculus. VA neurons were localized to the P4+/- and P6+/- stripes and HA neurons were localized to the P5+/- and P7- stripes. This is the first study showing that a series of adjacent ZII+/- stripes are tied to specific physiological functions as measured in the responses of PCs to natural stimulation. Moreover, this study shows that the functional zone in the pigeon flocculus spans a ZII+/- stripe pair, which is contrary to the scheme proposed from rodent research.


MicroRNAs (miRNAs) add a previously unexpected layer to the post-transcriptional regulation of protein production. Although locked nucleic acids (LNAs) reveal the distribution of mature miRNAs by in situ hybridization (ISH) experiments in zebrafish and other organisms, high cost has restricted their use. Further, LNA probes designed to recognize mature miRNAs do not distinguish expression patterns of two miRNA genes that produce the same mature miRNA sequence. Riboprobes are substantially less expensive than LNAs, but have not been used to detect miRNA gene expression because they do not bind with high affinity to the short, 22-nucleotide-long mature miRNAs. To solve these problems, we capitalized on the fact that miRNAs are initially transcribed into long primary transcripts (pri-mRNAs). We show here that conventional digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes can bind to primary miRNA transcripts in zebrafish embryos. We tested intergenic and intronic miRNAs (miR-10d, miR-21, miR-27a, miR-126a, miR-126b, miR-138, miR-140, miR-144, miR-196a1, miR-196a2, miR-196a2b [miR-196c], miR-196b, miR-196b1b [miR-196d], miR-199, miR-214, miR-200, and miR-222) in whole mounts and some of these in histological sections. Results showed that pri-miRNA ISH provides an attractive and cost-effective tool to study miRNA expression by ISH. We use this method to show that miR-126a and miR-126b are transcribed in the caudal vasculature in the pattern of their neighboring gene ci116 or host gene egfl7, respectively, and that the chondrocyte miRNA mir-140 lies downstream of Sox9 in development of the craniofacial skeleton.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurological disorder that affects more than a million people worldwide. The etiology of MS is not known and there is no medical treatment that can cure MS. Earlier studies have shown that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPARs) agonists ameliorate MS-like disease in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). In this study we have used PPAR deficient mice to determine its physiological role in the regulation of CNS EAE and MS. We found that PPAR(-/-) mice develop EAE with similar day of onset and disease incidence compared to C57BL/6 wild type mice. Interestingly, both male and female PPAR(-/-) mice showed prolonged EAE with resistance to remission and recovery. PPAR(-/-) mice with EAE expressed elevated levels of IFN and IL-17 along with IL-12p35 and IL-12p40 in the brain and spleen. PPAR(-/-) mice also developed augmented neural antigen-specific Th1/Th17 responses and impaired Th2/Treg responses compared to wild type mice. These findings indicate that PPAR(-/-) mice develop prolonged EAE in association with augmented Th1/Th17 responses, suggesting a critical physiological role for PPAR in the remission and recovery of EAE.
Placental Opioid-Enhancing Factor (POEF) is a substance found in amniotic fluid (AF) that, when ingested, potentiates opioid-mediated, but not non-opioid-mediated, hypoalgesia. Vaginal-cervical stimulation (VCS) produces a stimulus-bound, partially opioid-mediated hypoalgesia that previous research has shown to be potentiated by AF ingestion. To understand the mechanism of opioid enhancement by POEF we investigated the pattern of neural activation after a bout of VCS that produced hypoalgesia, with and without co-administration of AF. Specifically, virgin Long-Evans rats showing vaginal estrus were handled briefly (control) or received VCS (75g pressure, 1 min), in a pattern that approximated early parturition rather than copulation, using a spring-loaded glass-rod probe. Rats were given an orogastric infusion (0.25 ml) of either AF or 0.9% saline resulting in four groups (VCS or handling; AF or saline). Rats were perfused 90 min after treatment and tissue was processed by immunohistochemistry for Fos. The number of Fos-immunoreactive cells was counted in structures previously shown to express Fos in response to VCS (the medial preoptic area, MPOA; the ventrolateral portion of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, vlVMH; the arcuate nucleus, ARC). We found that this pattern of VCS did not produce a significant increase in Fos expression in the MPOA and vlVMH unless it was paired with AF. VCS produced a significant increase in Fos in the ARC. The interaction of AF and VCS on Fos expression in the MPOA suggests that POEF may enhance vaginal-cervical sensory input at parturition to facilitate sensitization of the MPOA, and presumably facilitate maternal-behavior onset.
The subependymal zone at the lateral ventricular wall represents a major neurogenic niche of the adult mammalian brain and continuously provides new neurons for the olfactory bulb. A mosaic of stem and progenitor cells in this niche has the potential to respond to multiple signals including growth factors such as EGF. Recent studies using long-term ventricular infusion of EGF demonstrate intense cell proliferation around the ventricular wall, implicating the presence of EGF-reactive cells also outside the classical neurogenic lateral niche. Here we show that intraventricular injection of EGF induces within minutes CREB and ERK phosphorylation in astrocyte-like progenitor cells (type B cells) and EGF receptor-expressing transit-amplifying progenitor cells-both in the striatal and septal ventricular walls. EGF infusion for 6 days induced continued CREB and ERK activation in nestin+ cells paralleled by intense periventricular cell proliferation. In addition, the ependyma became EGF receptor-immunoreactive, revealed intense CREB phosphorylation and underwent partial de-differentiation. Our results demonstrate that intraventricular application of EGF induces CREB and ERK phosphorylation along the entire ventricular walls and thus permits a direct identification of EGF-responsive cell types. They further support the notion that not only the striatal ventricular wall where the SEZ is located but also the septal ventricular wall carries latent potential for the formation of neurons and glial cells.
Cocaine is a major stimulant drug which can have rewarding and locomotor activating effects. It is used by non-addicts to enhance concentration and performance in a work or social setting. It was suggested that cocaine may amplify the impact of mood and sensory stimulation on behaviour. Here we tested whether cocaine can enhance the impact of novel sensory stimulation on exploratory locomotor activity. In this study the effects of cocaine (0, 2.5, 5.0, 10mg/kg, i.p.) on the locomotor response induced by on-off light stimulation with different light intensities (0, 22, 83, 440 lx) was investigated. Visual stimulation increased locomotor activity and grooming behaviour. Cocaine more dramatically increased locomotion and rearing behaviour but suppressed grooming. Also, visual stimulation effects on grooming were reduced by cocaine. The additive relationship between the cocaine and visual stimulation effects on locomotion and rearing combined with their opposing impact upon grooming point to independent mechanisms mediating cocaine- and visual stimulation-induced behavioural activation.
Sexual infidelity can be costly to members of both the extra-pair and the paired couple. Thus, detecting infidelity risk is potentially adaptive if it aids in avoiding cuckoldry or loss of parental and relationship investment. Among men, testosterone is inversely related to voice pitch, relationship and offspring investment, and is positively related to the pursuit of short-term relationships, including extra-pair sex. Among women, estrogen is positively related to voice pitch, attractiveness, and the likelihood of extra-pair involvement. Although prior work has demonstrated a positive relationship between men's testosterone levels and infidelity, this study is the first to investigate attributions of infidelity as a function of sexual dimorphism in male and female voices. We found that men attributed high infidelity risk to feminized women's voices, but not significantly more often than did women. Women attributed high infidelity risk to masculinized men's voices at significantly higher rates than did men. These data suggest that voice pitch is used as an indicator of sexual strategy in addition to underlying mate value. The aforementioned attributions may be adaptive if they prevent cuckoldry and/or loss of parental and relationship investment via avoidance of partners who may be more likely to be unfaithful.
Blood cells are transported into the brain and are thought to participate in neurodegenerative processes following hypoxic ischemic injury. We examined the possibility that transient forebrain ischemia (TFI) causes the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to become permeable to blood cells, possibly via dysfunction and degeneration of endothelial cells in rats. Extravasation of Evans blue and immunoglobulin G (IgG) was observed in the hippocampal CA1-2 areas within 8 h after TFI, and peaked at 48 h. This extravasation was accompanied by loss of tight junction proteins, occludin, and zonula occludens-1, and degeneration of endothelial cells in the CA1-2 areas. Iron overload and mitochondrial free radical production were evident in the microvessel endothelium of the hippocampus before endothelial cell damage occurred. Administration of deferoxamine (DFO), an iron chelator, or Neu2000, an antioxidant, blocked free radical production and endothelial cell degeneration. Our findings suggest that iron overload and iron-mediated free radical production cause loss of tight junction proteins and degeneration of endothelial cells, opening of the BBB after TFI.
Liposome encapsulation of active principles enhances their bioavailability to the brain. We investigated whether encapsulation of citicoline in liposomes increases its therapeutic effects in ischemia, performing a longitudinal MRI study of lesion volumes and edema in an animal model of stroke. Nineteen rats were submitted to permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery and treated with: (1) saline, (2) intraperitoneal citicoline (500mg/kg), (3) intravenous citicoline (48mg/kg), and (4) intravenous liposome-encapsulated citicoline (48mg/kg). Lesion volumes were measured by MRI at days 0, 1, 3 and 7 following surgery. Encapsulation in liposomes increased the therapeutic effects of citicoline, as reflected by a 32% reduction of the infarct sizes at day 7, in contrast with controls where infarct sizes at day 7 increased by 39%, respect to values at day 0. Intravenously injected citicoline reduced infarct sizes by 9% while intraperitoneal citicoline resulted in an increase of infarct sizes by 10%. A slight (not significant) reduction of edema formation was observed for animals treated with citicoline, in all of its delivery forms. Liposome-encapsulated citicoline causes a noticeable reduction in lesion volumes as compared to free citicoline (either i.p. or i.v.) at days 1, 3 and 7 following permanent stroke.
Important sounds can be easily missed or misidentified in the presence of extraneous noise. We describe an auditory illusion in which a continuous ongoing tone becomes inaudible during a brief, non-masking noise burst more than one octave away, which is unexpected given the frequency resolution of human hearing. Participants strongly susceptible to this illusory discontinuity did not perceive illusory auditory continuity (in which a sound subjectively continues during a burst of masking noise) when the noises were short, yet did so at longer noise durations. Participants who were not prone to illusory discontinuity showed robust early electroencephalographic responses at 40-66 ms after noise burst onset, whereas those prone to the illusion lacked these early responses. These data suggest that short-latency neural responses to auditory scene components reflect subsequent individual differences in the parsing of auditory scenes.
The Rho family of small GTPases are essential during early embryonic development making it difficult to study their functions in adult animals. Using inducible transgenes expressing either a constitutively active version of the single C. elegans Rho ortholog, RHO-1, or an inhibitor of endogenous Rho (C3 transferase), we demonstrate multiple defects caused by altering Rho signaling in adult C. elegans. Changes in RHO-1 signaling in cholinergic neurons affected locomotion, pharyngeal pumping and fecundity. Changes in RHO-1 signaling outside the cholinergic neurons resulted in defective defecation, ovulation, and changes in C. elegans body morphology. Finally both increased and decreased RHO-1 signaling in adults resulted in death within hours. The multiple post-developmental roles for Rho in C. elegans demonstrate that RhoA signaling pathways continue to be used post-developmentally and the resulting phenotypes provide an opportunity to further study post-developmental Rho signaling pathways using genetic screens.

IFN- exerts multiple effects leading to immune protection against pathogens and cancer as well to autoimmune reactions by acting on monocytes and dendritic cells. We analyzed the versatility of human monocytes conditioned by IFN- towards dendritic cell differentiation (IFN-DC) in shaping the autologous T-helper response. Priming of nave CD4 T cells with autologous IFN-DC in the presence of either SEA or anti-CD3, resulted, in addition to a prominent expansion of CXCR3+ IFN--producing CD4 Th1 cells, in the emergence of two distinct subsets of IL-17-producing CD4 T cells: i) a predominant Th17 population selectively producing IL-17 and expressing CCR6; ii) a minor Th1/Th17 population, producing both IL-17 and IFN-. After phagocytosis of apoptotic cells, IFN-DC induced Th17 cell expansion and IL-17 release. Notably, the use of neutralizing antibodies revealed that IL-23 was an essential cytokine in mediating Th17 cell development by IFN-DC. The demonstration of the IFN-DC-induced expansion of both Th1 and Th17 cell populations reveals the intrinsic plasticity of these DC in orienting the immune response and provides a mechanistic link between IFN- and the onset of autoimmune phenomena, which have been correlated with both IL-17 production and exposure to IFN-.
Statistical, spectral, multi-resolution and non-linear methods were applied to heart rate variability (HRV) series linked with classification schemes for the prognosis of cardiovascular risk. A total of 90 HRV records were analyzed: 45 from healthy subjects and 45 from cardiovascular risk patients. A total of 52 features from all the analysis methods were evaluated using standard two-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (KS-test). The results of the statistical procedure provided input to multi-layer perceptron (MLP) neural networks, radial basis function (RBF) neural networks and support vector machines (SVM) for data classification. These schemes showed high performances with both training and test sets and many combinations of features (with a maximum accuracy of 96.67%). Additionally, there was a strong consideration for breathing frequency as a relevant feature in the HRV analysis.
Frontostriatal circuit mediated cognitive dysfunction has been implicated in frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and may differ across subtypes of FTLD. We manually segmented the neostriatum (caudate nucleus and putamen) in FTLD subtypes: behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia, FTD, n=12; semantic dementia, SD, n=13; and progressive non-fluent aphasia, PNFA, n=9); in comparison with controls (n=27). Diagnoses were based on international consensus criteria. Manual bilateral segmentation of the caudate nucleus and putamen was conducted blind to diagnosis by a single analyst, on MRI scans using a standardized protocol. Intracranial volume was calculated via a stereological point counting technique and was used for normalizing the shape analysis. Segmented binaries were analyzed using the Spherical Harmonic (SPHARM) Shape Analysis tools (University of North Carolina) to perform comparisons between FTLD subtypes and controls for global shape difference, local significance maps and mean magnitude maps of shape displacement. Shape analysis revealed that there was significant shape difference between FTLD subtypes and controls, consistent with the predicted frontostriatal dysfunction and of significant magnitude, as measured by displacement maps. These differences were not significant for SD compared to controls; lesser for PNFA compared to controls; whilst FTD showed a more specific pattern in regions relaying fronto- and corticostriatal circuits. Shape analysis shows regional specificity of atrophy, manifest as shape deflation, with a differential between FTLD subtypes, compared to controls.
Variations in the signalling NRG1-ErbB4 pathway have been associated with genetic susceptibility for both bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, although the underlying neural mechanisms are still uncertain. Reduced integrity of the anterior limb of the internal capsule (ALIC) has been found in association with risk-associated genetic variation in the 5' region of the NRG1 gene. We hypothesised that variation in the gene encoding the NRG1 receptor, ErbB4, would also be associated with reduced ALIC integrity and with cognitive impairments characteristic of individuals with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), we examined the white matter integrity associations of the ErbB4 polymorphism rs4673628, which resides within intron 12 of the gene encoding ErbB4, in 36 healthy individuals. We also sought to clarify the cognitive effects of any findings. We found that genetic variation at the rs4673628 locus in the ErbB4 gene was significantly associated with ALIC white matter integrity which was also significantly and positively associated with mnemonic function. These findings provide further evidence to support a key role of NRG1-ErbB4 signalling in the pathophysiology of major mental disorders.
Auditory sensory gating deficits have been reported in subjects with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), but the hemispheric and neuronal origins of this deficit are not well understood. The objectives of this study were to: (1) investigate auditory sensory gating of the 50-ms response (M50) in patients diagnosed with PTSD by utilizing magnetoencephalography (MEG); (2) explore the relationship between M50 sensory gating and cortical thickness of the superior temporal gyrus (STG) measured with structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); and (3) examine the association between PTSD symptomatology and bilateral sensory gating. Seven participants with combat-related PTSD and eleven controls underwent the paired-click sensory gating paradigm. MEG localized M50 neuronal generators to the STG in both groups. The PTSD group displayed impaired M50 gating in the right hemisphere. Thinner right STG cortical thickness was associated with worse right sensory gating in the PTSD group. The right S1 M50 source strength and gating ratio were correlated with PTSD symptomatology. These findings suggest that the structural integrity of right hemisphere STG cortices play an important role in auditory sensory gating deficits in PTSD.
Emotion regulation involves the use of strategies to influence the experience and expression of emotions. Anxiety and depression are strongly associated with the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, such as auditory hallucinations (AHs). Individuals usually try to down-regulate (decrease) such emotions, consequently abnormal or maladaptive use of one or more of these down-regulatory processes (e.g. increased use of expressive suppression or maladaptive attentional deployment, i.e. rumination/worry) may play an important role in AHs (e.g. increasing AH severity and distress). This study examined the self-reported use of a range of emotion regulation strategies in individuals with schizophrenia and current AHs (SZ AH; N=34) and healthy controls (N=34). Two separable dimensions of hallucinatory experiences (severity and distress) were assessed together with measures of anxiety, depression and happiness. Within the SZ AH group, greater use of expressive suppression was associated with an increase in severity of AHs and greater disruption in daily life. In addition, rumination was significantly positively correlated with the distress (but not with the severity) associated with AHs. Within the control group, expressive suppression, rumination and worry were associated with more anxiety/depression and less happiness, as predicted. The implications of different emotion regulation strategies for the treatment of individuals with schizophrenia and AHs are discussed.
The presence of a comorbid eating disorder (ED) and personality disorder (PD) is associated with greater problems and poorer functioning than having an ED alone or PD alone. This pattern is also found for non-ED axis I disorders and PDs. This study aims to examine if an ED, compared to other non-ED axis I disorders, in a PD sample confers greater risks for: number and type of non-ED axis I and axis II disorders, suicide attempts and non-suicidal self-injury, and poorer psychosocial functioning. Standardized interviews were conducted on 166 females and 166 males with PDs. In females with PDs, EDs, as compared to other axis I disorders, were associated with more non-ED axis I and II disorders (particularly borderline and avoidant PD) and poorer global functioning, but not with suicide attempts or non-suicidal self-injury. In males with PDs, EDs were associated with more axis II disorders, particularly borderline PD. Given the small group of males with EDs, these results require replication. Males and females with PDs and EDs may have multiple comorbid disorders, particularly borderline PD and for females, avoidant PD that may warrant targeting in treatment.
This study aimed to examine the subjective awareness of everyday dysexecutive function and the 'objective' executive function in individuals with schizotypal personality features. Forty-nine individuals with schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) proneness (25 negative schizotypy and 24 non-negative schizotypy were identified using cluster analysis) and 44 non-SPD individuals completed a battery of 'objective' executive function tests and a self-reported Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX) on everyday executive problems. The findings showed that individuals with SPD proneness including negative schizotypy and non-negative schizotypy did not have significant worse performance than non-SPD in most of 'objective' executive function tests, but self-reported significantly disproportionate more dysexecutive problems than non-SPD. Furthermore, SPD proneness, especially negative schizotypy was found to give undependable estimation on their everyday dysexecutive function while non-negative schizotypy was not. The current findings suggest that the subjective awareness of dysexecutive function may precede actual 'objective' executive function impairments in a subtype of SPD (non-negative schizotypy) and the subjective complaint of the daily dysexecutive behavior in SPD proneness, especially negative schizotypy might result from their unreliable estimation of executive function.

The field of mouse phenotyping with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is rapidly growing, motivated by the need for improved tools for characterizing and evaluating mouse models of human disease. MRI is an excellent modality for investigating genetically altered animals. It is capable of whole brain coverage, can be used in vivo, and provides multiple contrast mechanisms for investigating different aspects of neuranatomy and physiology. The advent of high-field scanners along with the ability to scan multiple mice simultaneously allows for rapid phenotyping of novel mutations. Effective mouse MRI studies require attention to many aspects of experiment design. In this article, we will describe general methods to acquire quality images for mouse phenotyping using a system that images mice concurrently in shielded transmit/receive radio frequency (RF) coils in a common magnet (Bock et al., 2003). We focus particularly on anatomical phenotyping, an important and accessible application that has shown a high potential for impact in many mouse models at our imaging centre. Before we can provide the detailed steps to acquire such images, there are important practical considerations for both in vivo brain imaging (Dazai et al., 2004) and ex vivo brain imaging (Spring et al., 2007) that should be noted. These are discussed below.
Visual perception is based on both incoming sensory signals and information about ongoing actions. Recordings from single neurons have shown that corollary discharge signals can influence visual representations in parietal, frontal and extrastriate visual cortex, as well as the superior colliculus (SC). In each of these areas, visual representations are remapped in conjunction with eye movements. Remapping provides a mechanism for creating a stable, eye-centred map of salient locations. Temporal and spatial aspects of remapping are highly variable from cell to cell and area to area. Most neurons in the lateral intraparietal area remap stimulus traces, as do many neurons in closely allied areas such as the frontal eye fields the SC and extrastriate area V3A. Remapping is not purely a cortical phenomenon. Stimulus traces are remapped from one hemifield to the other even when direct cortico-cortical connections are removed. The neural circuitry that produces remapping is distinguished by significant plasticity, suggesting that updating of salient stimuli is fundamental for spatial stability and visuospatial behaviour. These findings provide new evidence that a unified and stable representation of visual space is constructed by redundant circuitry, comprising cortical and subcortical pathways, with a remarkable capacity for reorganization.
Our vision remains stable even though the movements of our eyes, head and bodies create a motion pattern on the retina. One of the most important, yet basic, feats of the visual system is to correctly determine whether this retinal motion is owing to real movement in the world or rather our own self-movement. This problem has occupied many great thinkers, such as Descartes and Helmholtz, at least since the time of Alhazen. This theme issue brings together leading researchers from animal neurophysiology, clinical neurology, psychophysics and cognitive neuroscience to summarize the state of the art in the study of visual stability. Recently, there has been significant progress in understanding the limits of visual stability in humans and in identifying many of the brain circuits involved in maintaining a stable percept of the world. Clinical studies and new experimental methods, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation, now make it possible to test the causal role of different brain regions in creating visual stability and also allow us to measure the consequences when the mechanisms of visual stability break down.

We characterize the previously unrecognized phenomenon of axotomy-induced axonogenesis in rat embryonic hippocampal neurons in vitro and elucidate the underlying mechanism. New neurites arose from cell bodies after axotomy and grew. These neurites were Tau-1-positive, and the injured axons showed negative immunoreactivity for Tau-1. Axonogenesis was delayed in these neurons by inhibiting the dynein-dynactin complex through the overexpression of p50. Importin , which was locally translated after axotomy, was associated with the dynein-importin  complex and was required for axonogenesis. Taken together, these results suggest that retrograde transport of injury-induced signals in injured axons play key roles in the axotomy-induced axonogenesis of hippocampal neurons.

To clarify the mechanisms of action of blonanserin, an atypical antipsychotic drug, we studied the effects of systemic administration of blonanserin and risperidone on extracellular levels of norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, GABA and glutamate in the medial prefrontal cortex using microdialysis, and neuronal firing in the ventral tegmental area, locus coeruleus, dorsal raphe nucleus and mediodorsal thalamic nucleus using radiotelemetry. The binding affinities of blonanserin to D(2) and 5-HT(2A) receptors in the rat brain were confirmed and found to be similar. Blonanserin transiently increased neuronal firing in locus coeruleus and ventral tegmental area but not in dorsal raphe nucleus or mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, whereas risperidone increased the firing in locus coeruleus, ventral tegmental area and dorsal raphe nucleus but not in mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. Blonanserin persistently increased frontal extracellular levels of norepinephrine and dopamine but not serotonin, GABA or glutamate, whereas risperidone persistently increased those of norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin but not GABA or glutamate. These results suggest a pharmacological correlation between the stimulatory effects of these antipsychotics on frontal monoamine release and neuronal activity in monoaminergic nuclei. Inhibition of the (2) adrenoceptor increased extracellular monoamine levels and enhanced blonanserin-induced increase in extracellular serotonin level. These results indicated that the combination of antagonism of D(2) and 5-HT(2A) receptors contribute to the rise in extracellular levels of norepinephrine and dopamine, and that (2) adrenoceptors play important roles in frontal serotonin release. They also suggest that blonanserin-induced activation of monoaminergic transmission could be, at least partially, involved in atypical antipsychotic properties of blonanserin.
Axon development involves spatial-temporal cytoskeletal reorganization. However, how the cytoskeleton remodeling is modulated by extracellular cues is unclear. Here, we report a role of Wnt/Ca(2+) signaling in regulating actin and growth cone dynamics. We found that treatment of cultured cortical neurons with Wnt5a, a non-canonical Wnt, either globally or locally, caused an increase in the activity of calpain, a calcium-dependent protease responsible for the cleavage of several actin binding proteins, including spectrin. Treatment with Wnt5a promoted growth cone advance, as well as axonal growth, and these effects were prevented by chelating intracellular calcium, inhibition or down-regulation of calpain, or blockade of spectrin cleavage by competitive peptides. Interestingly, both Wnt5a and activated calpain were found to be mainly distributed in the axon-rich intermediate zone of neocortex. Down-regulating calpain expression interfered with the growth of callosal axons in vivo. Thus, Wnt5a serves as a physiological cue to stimulate localized calpain activity, which in turn promotes growth cone advance and axonal growth.
Asthma is a complex, inflammatory disorder characterized by airflow obstruction of variable degrees, bronchial hyper-responsiveness, and airway inflammation. Asthma is caused by environmental factors and a combination of genetic and environmental stimuli. Genetic studies have revealed that multiple loci are involved in the etiology of asthma. Recent cellular, molecular, and animal-model studies have revealed several cellular events that are involved in the progression of asthma, including: increased Th2 cytokines leading to the recruitment of inflammatory cells to the airway, and an increase in the production of reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial dysfunction in the activated inflammatory cells, leading to tissue injury in the bronchial epithelium. Further, aging and animal model studies have revealed that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are involved and play a large role in asthma. Recent studies using experimental allergic asthmatic mouse models and peripheral cells and tissues from asthmatic humans have revealed antioxidants as promising treatments for people with asthma. This article summarizes the latest research findings on the involvement of inflammatory changes, and mitochondrial dysfunction/oxidative stress in the development and progression of asthma. This article also addresses the relationship between aging and age-related immunity in triggering asthma, the antioxidant therapeutic strategies in treating people with asthma.
Recent studies of cortical neurons driven by fluctuating currents revealed cutoff frequencies for action potential encoding of several hundred Hz. Theoretical studies of biophysical neuron models have predicted a much lower cutoff frequency of the order of average firing rate or the inverse membrane time constant. The biophysical origin of the observed high cutoff frequencies is thus not well understood. Here we introduce a neuron model with dynamical action potential generation, in which the linear response can be analytically calculated for uncorrelated synaptic noise. We find that the cutoff frequencies increase to very large values when the time scale of action potential initiation becomes short.
The flow of information between neurons in many neural circuits is controlled by a highly specialized site of cell-cell contact known as a synapse. A number of molecules have been identified that are involved in central nervous system synapse development, but knowledge is limited regarding whether these cues direct organization of specific synapse types or on particular regions of individual neurons. Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain, and the majority of glutamatergic synapses occur on mushroom-shaped protrusions called dendritic spines. Changes in the morphology of these structures are associated with long-lasting modulation of synaptic strength thought to underlie learning and memory, and can be abnormal in neuropsychiatric disease. Here, we use rat cortical slice cultures to examine how a previously-described synaptogenic molecule, the EphB2 receptor tyrosine kinase, regulates dendritic protrusion morphology in specific regions of the dendritic arbor in cortical pyramidal neurons. We find that alterations in EphB2 signaling can bidirectionally control protrusion length, and knockdown of EphB2 expression levels reduces the number of dendritic spines and filopodia. Expression of wild-type or dominant negative EphB2 reveals that EphB2 preferentially regulates dendritic protrusion structure in basal dendrites. Our findings suggest that EphB2 may act to specify synapse formation in a particular subcellular region of cortical pyramidal neurons.
Establishing the neurological basis of behavioural dysfunction is key to provide a better understanding of Parkinson's disease (PD) and facilitate development of effective novel therapies. For this, the relationships between longitudinal structural brain changes associated with motor behaviour were determined in a rat model of PD and validated by post-mortem immunohistochemistry. Rats bearing a nigrostriatal lesion induced by infusion of the proteasome inhibitor lactacystin into the left-medial forebrain bundle and saline-injected controls underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline (prior to surgery) and 1, 3 and 5 weeks post-surgery with concomitant motor assessments consisting of forelimb grip strength, accelerating rotarod, and apormorphine-induced rotation. Lactacystin-injected rats developed early motor deficits alongside decreased ipsilateral cortical volumes, specifically thinning of the primary motor (M1) and somatosensory cortices and lateral ventricle hypertrophy (as determined by manual segmentation and deformation-based morphometry). Although sustained, motor dysfunction and nigrostriatal damage were maximal by 1 week post-surgery. Additional volume decreases in the ipsilateral ventral midbrain; corpus striatum and thalamus were only evident by week 3 and 5. Whilst cortical MRI volume changes best predicted the degree of motor impairment, post-mortem tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the striatum was a better predictor of motor behaviour overall, with the notable exception of performance in the accelerating rotarod, in which, M1 cortical thickness remained the best predictor. These results highlight the importance of identifying extra-nigral regions of damage that impact on behavioural dysfunction from damage to the nigrostriatal system.
To begin to understand the contributions of maternal obesity and over-nutrition to human development and the early origins of obesity, we utilized a non-human primate model to investigate the effects of maternal high-fat feeding and obesity on breast milk, maternal and fetal plasma fatty acid composition and fetal hepatic development. While the high-fat diet (HFD) contained equivalent levels of n-3 fatty acids (FA's) and higher levels of n-6 FA's than the control diet (CTR), we found significant decreases in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and total n-3 FA's in HFD maternal and fetal plasma. Furthermore, the HFD fetal plasma n-6:n-3 ratio was elevated and was significantly correlated to the maternal plasma n-6:n-3 ratio and maternal hyperinsulinemia. Hepatic apoptosis was also increased in the HFD fetal liver. Switching HFD females to a CTR diet during a subsequent pregnancy normalized fetal DHA, n-3 FA's and fetal hepatic apoptosis to CTR levels. Breast milk from HFD dams contained lower levels of eicosopentanoic acid (EPA) and DHA and lower levels of total protein than CTR breast milk. This study links chronic maternal consumption of a HFD with fetal hepatic apoptosis and suggests that a potentially pathological maternal fatty acid milieu is replicated in the developing fetal circulation in the nonhuman primate.
Pending changes in European legislation ban the use of wild-caught animals in research. This change is partly justified on the assumption that captive-breeding (or hand-rearing) increases welfare of captive animals because these practices result in animals with reduced fear of humans. However, there are few actual data on the long-term behavioural effects of captive-breeding in non-domestic species, and these are urgently needed in order to understand the welfare and scientific consequences of adopting this practice. We compared the response of hand-reared and wild-caught starlings to the presence of a human in the laboratory. During human presence, all birds increased their general locomotor activity but the wild-caught birds moved away from the human and were less active than the hand-reared birds. After the human departed, the wild-caught birds were slower to decrease their activity back towards baseline levels, and showed a dramatic increase in time at the periphery of the cage compared with the hand-reared birds. We interpret these data as showing evidence of a greater fear response in wild-caught birds with initial withdrawal followed by a subsequent rebound of prolonged attempts to escape the cage. We found no effects of environmental enrichment. However, birds in cages on low shelves were less active than birds on upper shelves, and showed a greater increase in the time spent at the periphery of their cages after the human departed, perhaps indicating that the lower cages were more stressful. In demonstrating reduced fear of humans in hand-reared birds, our results support one of the proposed welfare benefits of this practice, but without further data on the possible welfare costs of hand-rearing, it is not yet possible to reach a general conclusion about its net welfare impact. However, our results confirm a clear scientific impact of both hand-rearing and cage position at the behavioural level.
A new method of axon recording through axon bleb has boosted the studies on the functional role of central nervous system (CNS) axons. Using this method, we have revealed the mechanisms underlying the initiation and propagation of the digital-mode signal, all-or-none action potentials (APs), in neocortical pyramidal neurons. Accumulation of the low-threshold Na(+) channel subtype Na(v)1.6 at the distal end of the axon initial segment (AIS) determines the lowest threshold for AP initiation, whereas accumulation of the high-threshold subtype Na(v)1.2 at the proximal region of the AIS promotes AP backpropagation to the soma and dendrites. Through dual recording from the soma and the axon, we have showed that subthreshold membrane potential (V(m)) fluctuations in the soma propagate along the axon to a long distance and probably reach the axon terminals. Paired recording from cortical neurons has revealed that these V(m) changes in the soma modulate AP-triggered synaptic transmission. This new V(m)-dependent mode of synaptic transmission is called analog communication. Unique properties of axonal K(+) channels (K(v)1 channels) may contribute to shaping the AP waveform, particularly its duration, and thus controlling synaptic strength at different levels of presynaptic V(m). The level of background Ca(2+) may also participate in mediating the analog signaling. Together, these findings enrich our knowledge on the principles of neuronal signaling in the CNS and help understand how the brain works.
Vagus nerve stimulation of afferents is used as an adjunctive treatment for drug-resistant epilepsy and depression. In addition, anti-inflammatory properties of vagus nerve stimulation have been reported in various experimental models of inflammation but not in colitis. These effects are thought to be mediated via peripheral release of acetylcholine from the vagus and subsequent activation of macrophages. Our aim was to evaluate in rats the anti-inflammatory effects of chronic vagus nerve stimulation on colonic inflammation. Colitis was induced by intracolonic instillation of trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid. Vagus nerve stimulation (left cervical) was performed in freely moving animals 3 h per day for five consecutive days. Assessment of colonic inflammation was obtained using physiological (e.g. body weight, temperature and locomotor activity) parameters, macroscopical (area of lesions), histological, and biological parameters (e.g. myeloperoxidase activity, cytokine and cytokine-related mRNAs), both at the level of the damaged colon and the colon immediately above. A global multivariate index of colitis was then generated for a better characterization of colonic inflammation. Vagus nerve stimulation reduced the degree of body weight loss and inflammatory markers as observed above the lesion by histological score and myeloperoxidase quantification. This anti-inflammatory effect was also demonstrated by the improvement of the multivariate index of colitis. These data argue for an anti-inflammatory role of vagus nerve stimulation chronically performed in freely moving rats with colitis and provide potential therapeutic applications for patients with inflammatory bowel diseases.
Neuroinflammation associated with advanced HIV-1 infection is often exacerbated in cocaine-abusing, HIV-infected patients. The underlying mechanisms could, in part, be attributed to the increased impairment of blood brain barrier integrity in the presence of cocaine. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) has been implicated in several pathologic conditions, specifically attributable to its potent mitogenic effects. Its modulation by drug abuse, however, has received very little attention. In the present study, we demonstrated cocaine-mediated induction of PDGF-BB in human brain microvascular endothelial cells through the binding to its cognate  receptor. Furthermore, this effect was mediated, with subsequent activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and Egr-1 pathways, culminating ultimately into increased expression of PDGF-BB. Cocaine exposure resulted in increased permeability of the endothelial barrier, and this effect was abrogated in mice exposed to PDGF-BB neutralizing antibody, thus underscoring its role as a vascular permeant. In vivo relevance of these findings was further corroborated in cocaine-treated mice that were administered neutralizing antibody specific for PDGF-BB as well as in Egr-1(-/-) mice. Understanding the regulation of PDGF-BB expression may provide insights into the development of potential therapeutic targets for neuroinflammation associated with HIV infection and drug abuse.
Understanding the dynamics of wrist rotations is important for many fields, including biomechanics, rehabilitation and motor neuroscience. This paper provides an experimentally based mathematical model of wrist rotation dynamics in Flexion-Extension (FE) and Radial-Ulnar Deviation (RUD), and characterizes the torques required to overcome the passive mechanical impedance of wrist rotations. We modeled the wrist as a universal joint with non-intersecting axes. The equations of motion of the hand rotating about the wrist joint include inertial, damping, and stiffness terms, with parameter values based on direct measurements (stiffness) or measurements combined with data available in the literature (inertia, damping). We measured the wrist kinematics of six young, healthy subjects making comfortable and fast-paced wrist rotations (15 in FE, RUD, and combinations) and inserted these kinematic data into the model of wrist rotation dynamics. With this we quantified the torques required to overcome the impedance of wrist rotations and evaluated the relative importance of individual impedance terms as well as interactions between the degrees of freedom. We found that the wrist's passive stiffness is the major impedance the neuromuscular system must overcome to rotate the wrist. Inertia and passive damping only become important for very fast movements. Unlike elbow and shoulder reaching movements, inertial interaction torques are negligible for wrist rotations. Interaction torques due to stiffness and damping, however, are significant. Finally, we found that some model terms (inertial interaction torques, axis offset, and, for moderately sized rotations, non-linearities) can be neglected with little loss of accuracy, resulting in a simple, linear model useful for studies in biomechanics, motor neuroscience, and rehabilitation.
The cellular basis of depressive disorders is poorly understood. Recent studies in monkeys indicate that neurons in the lateral habenula (LHb), a nucleus that mediates communication between forebrain and midbrain structures, can increase their activity when an animal fails to receive an expected positive reward or receives a stimulus that predicts aversive conditions (that is, disappointment or anticipation of a negative outcome). LHb neurons project to, and modulate, dopamine-rich regions, such as the ventral tegmental area (VTA), that control reward-seeking behaviour and participate in depressive disorders. Here we show that in two learned helplessness models of depression, excitatory synapses onto LHb neurons projecting to the VTA are potentiated. Synaptic potentiation correlates with an animal's helplessness behaviour and is due to an enhanced presynaptic release probability. Depleting transmitter release by repeated electrical stimulation of LHb afferents, using a protocol that can be effective for patients who are depressed, markedly suppresses synaptic drive onto VTA-projecting LHb neurons in brain slices and can significantly reduce learned helplessness behaviour in rats. Our results indicate that increased presynaptic action onto LHb neurons contributes to the rodent learned helplessness model of depression.
Inhibition plays an essential role in shaping and refining the brain's representation of sensory stimulus attributes. In primary auditory cortex (A1), so-called &quot;sideband&quot; inhibition helps to sharpen the tuning of local neuronal responses. Several distinct types of anatomical circuitry could underlie sideband inhibition, including direct thalamocortical (TC) afferents, as well as indirect intracortical mechanisms. The goal of the present study was to characterize sideband inhibition in A1 and to determine its mechanism by analyzing laminar profiles of neuronal ensemble activity. Our results indicate that both lemniscal and nonlemniscal TC afferents play a role in inhibitory responses via feedforward inhibition and oscillatory phase reset, respectively. We propose that the dynamic modulation of excitability in A1 due to the phase reset of ongoing oscillations may alter the tuning of local neuronal ensembles and can be regarded as a flexible overlay on the more obligatory system of lemniscal feedforward type responses.
Neural patterning relies on transcriptional cross-repressive interactions that ensure unequivocal assignment of neural progenitor identity to proliferating cells. Progenitors of spinal motor neurons (pMN) and V2 interneurons (p2) are specified by a pair of cross-repressive transcription factors, Olig2 and Irx3. Lineage tracing revealed that many p2 progenitors transiently express the pMN marker Olig2 during spinal cord development. Here we demonstrate that the repression of Olig2 in p2 domain is controlled by mir-17-3p microRNA-mediated silencing of Olig2 mRNA. Mice lacking all microRNAs or just the mir-1792 cluster manifest a dorsal shift in pMN/p2 boundary and impairment in the production of V2 interneurons. Our findings suggest that microRNA-mediated repression of Olig2 mRNA plays a critical role during the patterning of ventral spinal progenitor domains by shifting the balance of cross-repressive interactions between Olig2 and Irx3 transcription factors.
Although substantial advances have been made in behavioral and pharmacological treatments for addictions, moving treatment development to the next stage may require novel ways of approaching addictions, particularly ways based on new findings regarding the neurobiological underpinnings of addictions that also assimilate and incorporate relevant information from earlier approaches. In this review, we first briefly review theoretical and biological models of addiction and then describe existing behavioral and pharmacologic therapies for the addictions within this framework. We then propose new directions for treatment development and targets that are informed by recent evidence regarding the heterogeneity of addictions and the neurobiological contributions to these disorders.
Impulsivity is the tendency to act prematurely without foresight. Behavioral and neurobiological analysis of this construct, with evidence from both animal and human studies, defines several dissociable forms depending on distinct cortico-striatal substrates. One form of impulsivity depends on the temporal discounting of reward, another on motor or response disinhibition. Impulsivity is commonly associated with addiction to drugs from different pharmacological classes, but its causal role in human addiction is unclear. We characterize in neurobehavioral and neurochemical terms a rodent model of impulsivity based on premature responding in an attentional task. Evidence is surveyed that high impulsivity on this task precedes the escalation subsequently of cocaine self-administration behavior, and also a tendency toward compulsive cocaine-seeking and to relapse. These results indicate that the vulnerability to stimulant addiction may depend on an impulsivity endophenotype. Implications of these findings for the etiology, development, and treatment of drug addiction are considered.
Food is consumed in order to maintain energy balance at homeostatic levels. In addition, palatable food is also consumed for its hedonic properties independent of energy status. Such reward-related consumption can result in caloric intake exceeding requirements and is considered a major culprit in the rapidly increasing rates of obesity in developed countries. Compared with homeostatic mechanisms of feeding, much less is known about how hedonic systems in brain influence food intake. Intriguingly, excessive consumption of palatable food can trigger neuroadaptive responses in brain reward circuitries similar to drugs of abuse. Furthermore, similar genetic vulnerabilities in brain reward systems can increase predisposition to drug addiction and obesity. Here, recent advances in our understanding of the brain circuitries that regulate hedonic aspects of feeding behavior will be reviewed. Also, emerging evidence suggesting that obesity and drug addiction may share common hedonic mechanisms will also be considered.
Addictive drugs have in common that they target the mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) system. This system originates in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and projects mainly to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Here, we review the effects that such drugs leave on glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in these three brain areas. We refer to these changes as drug-evoked synaptic plasticity, which outlasts the presence of the drug in the brain and contributes to the reorganization of neural circuits. While in most cases these early changes are not sufficient to induce the disease, with repetitive drug exposure, they may add up and contribute to addictive behavior.
How do addictive drugs hijack the brain's reward system? This review speculates how normal, physiological reward processes may be affected by addictive drugs. Addictive drugs affect acute responses and plasticity in dopamine neurons and postsynaptic structures. These effects reduce reward discrimination, increase the effects of reward prediction error signals, and enhance neuronal responses to reward-predicting stimuli, which may contribute to compulsion. Addictive drugs steepen neuronal temporal reward discounting and create temporal myopia that impairs the control of drug taking. Tonically enhanced dopamine levels may disturb working memory mechanisms necessary for assessing background rewards and thus may generate inaccurate neuronal reward predictions. Drug-induced working memory deficits may impair neuronal risk signaling, promote risky behaviors, and facilitate preaddictive drug use. Malfunctioning adaptive reward coding may lead to overvaluation of drug rewards. Many of these malfunctions may result in inadequate neuronal decision mechanisms and lead to choices biased toward drug rewards.
One unsolved issue in brain development is how interneurons migrating tangentially into the cortex acquire their regional addresses and laminar positions. The study by Lodato et al. in this issue shows that projection neurons regulate the laminar fates of cortical interneurons.
Neuropeptide B/W receptor 1 (NPBWR1) is a G-protein coupled receptor, which was initially reported as an orphan receptor, and whose ligands were identified by this and other groups in 2002 and 2003. To examine the physiological roles of NPBWR1, we examined phenotype of Npbwr1/ mice. When presented with an intruder mouse, Npbwr1/ mice showed impulsive contact with the strange mice, produced more intense approaches toward them, and had longer contact and chasing time along with greater and sustained elevation of heart rate and blood pressure compared to wild type mice. Npbwr1/ mice also showed increased autonomic and neuroendocrine responses to physical stress, suggesting that impairment of NPBWR1 leads to stress vulnerability. We also observed that these mice show abnormality in the contextual fear conditioning test. These data suggest that NPBWR1 plays a critical role in limbic system function and stress responses. Histological and electrophysiological studies showed that NPBWR1 acts as an inhibitory regulator on a subpopulation of GABAergic neurons in the lateral division of the CeA and terminates stress responses. These findings suggest important roles of NPBWR1 in regulating amygdala function during physical and social stress.
Although recent research has investigated animal decision-making under risk, little is known about how animals choose under conditions of ambiguity when they lack information about the available alternatives. Many models of choice behaviour assume that ambiguity does not impact decision-makers, but studies of humans suggest that people tend to be more averse to choosing ambiguous options than risky options with known probabilities. To illuminate the evolutionary roots of human economic behaviour, we examined whether our closest living relatives, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and bonobos (Pan paniscus), share this bias against ambiguity. Apes chose between a certain option that reliably provided an intermediately preferred food type, and a variable option that could vary in the probability that it provided a highly preferred food type. To examine the impact of ambiguity on ape decision-making, we interspersed trials in which chimpanzees and bonobos had no knowledge about the probabilities. Both species avoided the ambiguous option compared with their choices for a risky option, indicating that ambiguity aversion is shared by humans, bonobos and chimpanzees.
Using pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) kindling, we collected hippocampal tissue from standard response and kindling resistant animals, measuring hippocampal mRNA with real-time PCR of glutamate transporters GLAST, GLT-1, and EAAC1 and the sodium-coupled neutral amino acid transporter (SNAT) 1, SNAT2, and SNAT3. In addition, we measured mRNA of glutamine synthetase (GS), phosphate-activated glutaminase (PAG), glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 1, GAD2, and vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter (VIAAT). Fully kindled animals had decreased expression of mRNA in the hippocampus for GLAST and GAD2 compared with saline injected control. mRNA for SNAT1, SNAT2, SNAT3, GS, and VIAAT was increased. After induction of generalized tonic-clonic seizures by PTZ there were no differences in mRNA at 24h after seizures, equaling baseline quantities except for GAD1, which was decreased. When levels were measured at 30days after a PTZ induced convulsive seizure, we found increased levels of GLT-1, SNAT1 and GS, but decreased levels of GAD1. When these animals, serving as control for the 30day interval between the last convulsive seizure in the kindled experimental group, were analyzed, we found that GLT-1, SNAT3, GAD1 and VIAAT differed in that GLT-1 was decreased and the others increased. Animals found resistant to kindling had strikingly different mRNA patterns, with markedly up-regulated mRNA of proteins that transport glutamate into neurons and glia; SNAT1 was up regulated as well. Up-regulation of genes in kindling resistant animals supports the hypothesis that clearance of glutamate, conversion to glutamine and transport of glutamine into neurons, has the effect of raising the threshold for convulsive seizures and attenuating kindling.
Supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei are part of the hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system, they constitute the main source for vasopressin and they represent also obvious examples of activity-dependent neuroglial plasticity. Certain physiological conditions such as dehydration are accompanied by a structural remodeling of the neurons, their synaptic inputs and their surrounding glia. In the present work, an adult Meriones shawi (a rodent adapted to desert life) is used as an animal model. Using GFAP and vasopressin expressions as indicators successively of astrocytes and neuronal activations, the effect of a prolonged episode of water deprivation on the SON and PVN, hypothalamus nuclei were examined. We studied the immunoreactivity of GFAP and vasopressin in various hydration states (total deprivation of drinking water for 1 and 2months compared to hydrated animals). Prolonged dehydration produces an important decrease of GFAP immunoreactivity in both SON and PVN after 1 and 2months of water restriction. This decrease is accompanied by increased vasopressin immunoreactivity following the same periods of water deprivation. These findings may explain a real communication between vasopressin neurons and their surrounding astrocytes, thus the retraction of astrocytes and their processes is accompanied by an enhancement of vasopressin neuron density and their projecting fibers in response to this osmotic stress situation. Furthermore, these data could open further investigations concerning the possible involvement of the communication between astrocytes and vasopressin neurons in both PVN and SON in the regulation of Meriones hydrous balance and resistance to dehydration.
Survival of many altricial animals critically depends on the sense of smell. Curiously, the olfactory system is rather immature at birth and undergoes a maturation process, which is poorly understood. Using patch-clamp technique on mouse olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) with a defined odorant receptor, we demonstrate that OSNs exhibit functional maturation during the first month of postnatal life by developing faster response kinetics, higher sensitivity, and most intriguingly, higher selectivity. OSNs expressing mouse odorant receptor 23 (MOR23) are relatively broadly tuned in neonates and become selective detectors for the cognate odorant within 2 weeks. Remarkably, these changes are prevented by genetic ablation of olfactory marker protein (OMP), which is exclusively expressed in mature OSNs. Biochemical and pharmacological evidence suggests that alteration in odorant-induced phosphorylation of signaling proteins underlie some of the OMP(-/-) phenotypes. Furthermore, in a novel behavioral assay in which the mouse pups are given a choice between the biological mother and another unfamiliar lactating female, wild-type pups prefer the biological mother, while OMP knock-out pups fail to show preference. These results reveal that OSNs undergo an OMP-dependent functional maturation process that coincides with early development of the smell function, which is essential for pups to form preference for their mother.
Real-life activities, such as watching a movie or engaging in conversation, unfold over many minutes. In the course of such activities, the brain has to integrate information over multiple time scales. We recently proposed that the brain uses similar strategies for integrating information across space and over time. Drawing a parallel with spatial receptive fields, we defined the temporal receptive window (TRW) of a cortical microcircuit as the length of time before a response during which sensory information may affect that response. Our previous findings in the visual system are consistent with the hypothesis that TRWs become larger when moving from low-level sensory to high-level perceptual and cognitive areas. In this study, we mapped TRWs in auditory and language areas by measuring fMRI activity in subjects listening to a real-life story scrambled at the time scales of words, sentences, and paragraphs. Our results revealed a hierarchical topography of TRWs. In early auditory cortices (A1+), brain responses were driven mainly by the momentary incoming input and were similarly reliable across all scrambling conditions. In areas with an intermediate TRW, coherent information at the sentence time scale or longer was necessary to evoke reliable responses. At the apex of the TRW hierarchy, we found parietal and frontal areas that responded reliably only when intact paragraphs were heard in a meaningful sequence. These results suggest that the time scale of processing is a functional property that may provide a general organizing principle for the human cerebral cortex.
Rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC) plays a key role in our ability to postpone the execution of intended behaviors until after another activity has been performed. However, it is poorly understood in computational terms. One crucial question is whether RLPFC represents the content of delayed intentions or plays a nonspecific role. In this human functional magnetic resonance imaging study (n = 32), RLPFC was active while participants stored delayed intentions during a distracting ongoing task. Multivariate analysis showed that the intended cue for future action and the intended behavior could be decoded from distinct posterior brain regions. However, the content of intentions could not be decoded from RLPFC itself. Functional connectivity analysis showed that RLPFC increased its coupling with content-representing regions during intention storage. Furthermore, trials with relatively high RLPFC activity were associated with enhanced decoding. Thus, RLPFC may enable realization of delayed intentions via interactions with posterior brain regions, which represent their content.
A functional interaction between the hippocampal formation and the ventral striatum is thought to contribute to the learning and expression of associations between places and rewards. However, the mechanism of how such associations may be learned and used is currently unknown. We recorded neural ensembles and local field potentials from the ventral striatum and CA1 simultaneously as rats ran a modified T-maze. Theta-modulated cells in ventral striatum almost invariably showed firing phase precession relative to the hippocampal theta rhythm. Across the population of ventral striatal cells, phase precession was preferentially associated with an anticipatory ramping of activity up to the reward sites. In contrast, CA1 population activity and phase precession were distributed more uniformly. Ventral striatal phase precession was stronger to hippocampal than ventral striatal theta and was accompanied by increased theta coherence with hippocampus, suggesting that this effect is hippocampally derived. These results suggest that the firing phase of ventral striatal neurons contains motivationally relevant information and that phase precession serves to bind hippocampal place representations to ventral striatal representations of reward.
Preclinical evidence suggests that opioid withdrawal induces central sensitization (CS) that is maintained by supraspinal contributions from the descending pain modulatory system (DPMS). Here, in healthy human subjects we use functional magnetic resonance imaging to study the supraspinal activity during the withdrawal period of the opioid remifentanil. We used a crossover design and thermal stimuli on uninjured skin to demonstrate opioid withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia (OIH) without a CS-inducing peripheral stimulus. Saline was used in the control arm to account for effects of time. OIH in this injury-free model was observed in a subset of the healthy subjects (responders). Only in these subjects did opioid infusion and withdrawal induce a rise in activity in the mesencephalic-pontine reticular formation (MPRF), an area of the DPMS that has been previously shown to be involved in states of CS in humans, which became significant during the withdrawal phase compared with nonresponders. Paradoxically, this opioid withdrawal-induced rise in MPRF activity shows a significant negative correlation with the behavioral OIH score indicating a predominant inhibitory role of the MPRF in the responders. These data illustrate that in susceptible individuals central mechanisms appear to regulate the expression of OIH in humans in the absence of tissue injury, which might have relevance for functional pain syndromes where a peripheral origin for the pain is difficult to identify.
Liberal acceptance, overconfidence, and increased activity of the neurotransmitter dopamine have been proposed to account for abnormal sensory experiences, for instance, hallucinations in schizophrenia. In normal subjects, increased sensory experience in Yoga Nidra meditation is linked to striatal dopamine release. We therefore hypothesize that the neurotransmitter dopamine may function as a regulator of subjective confidence of visual perception in the normal brain. Although much is known about the effect of stimulation by neurotransmitters on cognitive functions, their effect on subjective confidence of perception has never been recorded experimentally before. In a controlled study of 24 normal, healthy female university students with the dopamine agonist pergolide given orally, we show that dopaminergic activation increases confidence in seeing rapidly presented words. It also improves performance in a forced-choice word recognition task. These results demonstrate neurotransmitter regulation of subjective conscious experience of perception and provide evidence for a crucial role of dopamine.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether (1)-adrenoceptors are expressed on primary nociceptive afferents that innervate healthy skin. Skin and dorsal root ganglia were collected from adult male Wistar rats and assessed using fluorescence immunohistochemistry with antibodies directed against (1)-adrenoceptors alone or in combination with specific labels including myelin basic protein and neurofilament 200 (markers of myelinated nerve fibres), protein gene product 9.5 (a pan-neuronal marker), tyrosine hydroxylase (sympathetic neurons), isolectin B(4) (IB(4): non-peptidergic sensory neurons), calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) (peptidergic sensory neurons). Double labelling in dorsal root ganglia confirmed the expression of (1)-adrenoceptors within sub-populations of CGRP, IB(4) and TRPV1 immunoreactive neurons. Myelinated and unmyelinated sensory nerve fibres in the skin expressed (1)-adrenoceptors whereas sympathetic nerve fibres did not. The expression of (1)-adrenoceptors on C- and A-delta nociceptive afferent fibres provides a histochemical substrate for direct excitation of these fibres by adrenergic agonists. This may help to explain the mechanism of sensory-sympathetic coupling that sometimes develops on surviving primary nociceptive afferents in neuropathic pain states.
While the basic pathways mediating vestibulo-ocular, -spinal, and -collic reflexes have been described in detail, little is known about vestibular projections to central autonomic sites. Previous studies have primarily focused on projections from the caudal vestibular region to solitary, vagal and parabrachial nuclei, but have noted a sparse innervation of the ventrolateral medulla. Since a direct pathway from the vestibular nuclei to the rostral ventrolateral medulla would provide a morphological substrate for rapid modifications in blood pressure, heart rate and respiration with changes in posture and locomotion, the present study examined anatomical evidence for this pathway using anterograde and retrograde tract tracing and immunofluorescence detection in brainstem sections of the rat medulla. The results provide anatomical evidence for direct pathways from the caudal vestibular nuclear complex to the rostral and caudal ventrolateral medullary regions. The projections are conveyed by fine and highly varicose axons that ramify bilaterally, with greater terminal densities present ipsilateral to the injection site and more rostrally in the ventrolateral medulla. In the rostral ventrolateral medulla, these processes are highly branched and extremely varicose, primarily directed toward the somata and proximal dendrites of non-catecholaminergic neurons, with minor projections to the distal dendrites of catecholaminergic cells. In the caudal ventrolateral medulla, the axons of vestibular nucleus neurons are more modestly branched with fewer varicosities, and their endings are contiguous with both the perikarya and dendrites of catecholamine-containing neurons. These data suggest that vestibular neurons preferentially target the rostral ventrolateral medulla, and can thereby provide a morphological basis for a short latency vestibulo-sympathetic pathway.
Exposure of rats to an odor of a predator can elicit an innate fear response. In addition, such exposure has been shown to activate limbic brain regions such as the amygdala. However, there is a paucity of data on the phenotypic characteristics of the activated amygdalar neurons following predator odor exposure. In the current experiments, rats were exposed to cloth which contained either ferret odor, butyric acid, or no odor for 30 min. Ferret odor-exposed rats displayed an increase in defensive burying versus control rats. Sections of the brains were prepared for dual-labeled immunohistochemistry and counts of c-Fos co-localized with Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), parvalbumin, or calbindin were made in the basolateral (BLA), central (CEA), and medial (MEA) nucleus of the amygdala. Dual-labeled immunohistochemistry showed a significant increase in the percentage of CaMKII-positive neurons also immunoreactive for c-Fos in the BLA, CEA and MEA of ferret odor-exposed rats compared to control and butyric acid-exposed groups. Further results showed a significant decrease in calbindin-immunoreactive neurons that were also c-Fos-positive in the anterior portion of the BLA of ferret odor-exposed rats compared to control and butyric acid-exposed rats, whereas the MEA expressed a significant decrease in calbindin/c-Fos dual-labeled neurons in butyric acid-exposed rats compared to controls and ferret odor-exposed groups. These results enhance our understanding of the functioning of the amygdala following exposure to predator threats by showing phenotypic characteristics of activated amygdalar neurons. With this knowledge, specific neuronal populations could be targeted to further elucidate the fundamental underpinnings of anxiety and could possibly indicate new targets for the therapeutic treatment of anxiety.
The pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease is thought to involve a self-sustaining cycle of neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. In order to develop novel anti-inflammatory therapies to break this cycle, it is crucial that the temporal relationship between neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation is characterised in pre-clinical models to maximise their predictive validity. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the progression of neuroinflammation relative to nigrostriatal neurodegeneration in the two most commonly-used rat models of Parkinson's disease. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were lesioned by terminal or axonal administration of 6-hydroxydopamine, and were sacrificed for quantitative immunohistochemistry (to assess nigrostriatal integrity (anti-tyrosine hydroxylase), microgliosis (anti-OX42) and astrocytosis (anti-GFAP)) at 6 h 24 h 72 h or 2 weeks post-lesion. Following terminal lesion, dopaminergic deafferentation of the striatum was evident from 6 h post-lesion and was accompanied by microglial and astroglial activation. Dopamine neuron loss from the substantia nigra did not occur until 2 weeks after terminal lesion, and this was preceded by microglial, but not astroglial, activation. Following axonal lesion, retraction of nigrostriatal terminals from the striatum was not observed until the 72 h time-point, and this was associated with a slight astrocytosis, but not microgliosis. Degeneration of dopaminergic neurons from the substantia nigra was also evident from 72 h after axonal lesion, and was accompanied by nigral microgliosis and astrocytosis by 2 weeks. This study highlights the temporal relationship between neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation in models of Parkinson's disease, and should facilitate use of these models in the development of anti-inflammatory therapies for the human condition.
Prolonged nutrient limitation has been extensively studied due to its positive effects on life span. However, less is understood of how brief periods of starvation can have lasting consequences. In this study, we used genetics, biochemistry, pharmacology and behavioral analysis to show that after a limited period of starvation, the synthesis of egl-2-encoded ether-a-go-go (EAG) K+ channels and its C-terminal modifications by unc-43-encoded CaMKII have a perduring effect on C. elegans male sexual behavior. EGL-2 and UNC-43 interactions, induced after food deprivation, maintain reduced excitability in muscles involved in sex. In young adult males, spastic contractions occur in cholinergic-activated sex muscles that lack functional unc-103-encoded ERG-like K+ channels. Promoting EGL-2 and UNC-43 interactions in unc-103 mutant adult males by starving them for a few hours reduce spastic muscle contractions over multiple days. Although transient starvation during early adulthood has a hormetic effect of suppressing mutation-induced muscle contractions, the treatment reduces the ability of young wild-type (WT) males to compete with well-fed cohorts in siring progeny.
The present study intended to investigate the involvement of dopaminergic and glutamatergic systems of the basolateral amygdala in amnesia induced by the stimulation of dorsal hippocampal cannabinoid receptors in male Wistar rats. The animals were stereotaxically implanted with guide cannulas in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus and basolateral amygdala (BLA), trained in a step-through type passive avoidance task, and tested 24 h after training to measure memory retrieval. Post-training intra-CA1 microinjection of the nonselective CB1/CB2 receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 (WIN) (0.1-0.5 g/rat) dose-dependently induced amnesia. Post-training intra-BLA administration of the D1/D2 dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (0.3 and 0.5 g/rat) plus intra-CA1 administration of 0.1 g/rat of WIN, which alone did not induce amnesia, inhibited memory formation. The inhibitory effect of 0.5 g/rat of WIN (intra-CA1) on memory formation was significantly decreased by the D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.1-0.5 g/rat, intra-BLA) or the D2 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride (0.02-0.5 g/rat, intra-BLA) given 5 min before post-training intra-CA1 microinjection of WIN. It is important to note that single intra-BLA microinjection of the same doses of apomorphine, SCH23390 or sulpiride had no effect on memory retrieval in passive avoidance task. On the other hand, post-training co-administration of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA; 0.03 and 0.05 g/rat, intra-BLA) plus an ineffective dose of WIN (0.1 g/rat, intra-CA1) induced amnesia. Furthermore, the inhibitory effect of 0.5 g/rat of intra-CA1 microinjection of WIN on memory formation was significantly decreased by pre-treatment with intra-BLA microinjection of the NMDA receptor antagonist d-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (d-AP5; 0.1 and 0.5 g/rat, intra-BLA). Intra-BLA microinjection of the same doses of NMDA or d-AP5 by itself did not induce any response on memory retrieval. Taken together, these findings support the existence of a functional interaction between dorsal hippocampal and basolateral amygdaloid neural circuits during processing cannabinoid-induced amnesia.
The aim of the study was to investigate whether the perception of intranasal chemosensory stimuli changes in relation to the respiratory cycle. We investigated 40 healthy subjects with normal olfactory function who participated in four sessions. The first session was used to adapt subjects to the experimental conditions, and, specifically, to train a certain breathing technique (velopharyngeal closure) which prevents intranasal respiratory air-flow. In each of the following three sessions one of three stimulants was tested, namely phenyl ethyl alcohol (PEA), hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S), or the trigeminal stimulant carbon dioxide (CO(2)). The sequence of testing the three stimulants was randomized across all participants. Sessions were separated by at least 1 day. Chemosensory event-related potentials (ERP) were recorded in response to 80 stimuli each. Following each stimulus subjects rated its intensity using a computerized visual analogue scale. Respiration was recorded using a probe in front of the subjects' mouth. While presentation of chemosensory stimuli was performed independent of the respiratory cycle, responses were averaged off-line according to the subjects' respiratory phase when the stimuli had been presented. Intensity of olfactory or trigeminal stimuli did not differ significantly in relation to the respiratory cycle. Olfactory ERP to phenylethyl alcohol were larger when stimuli were presented during inspiration. Similarly, responses to H(2)S tended to be larger when stimuli were presented during inspiratory phases. In addition, responses to CO(2) were larger when stimuli were presented during inspiration. Differences in relation to the respiratory cycle were found specifically for early ERP components. It is important to note that the changes of chemosensory information processing were found in the absence of changes of intranasal airflow. These data indicate on an electrophysiological level that there is priming of both olfactory and trigeminally mediated sensations in relation to the respiratory cycle.
Inhibitor of DNA binding (Id) proteins bind to and inhibit the function of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors including those that regulate retinal development. However, little is known about the role of Id proteins in the growth and differentiation of the retina during development. The purpose of this study is to observe the expression of Id proteins in the developing and adult mouse retinas as the first step in investigating the functions of Id family members in the eye. The expression of Id1-4 was examined by real-time PCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry in wild-type and Id1/Id3 double-knockout mice. Id1-4 genes and proteins showed high expression levels in the retina at embryonic and early postnatal stages, whereas declined in the adult. Expression of Id proteins was observed in the inner neuroblastic layer (NBL) at embryonic (E) day 13.5 through 16.5. Id4 expression began at E18.5. By E18.5 and postnatal day 1, the expression of Id1-4 exhibited distinct yet overlapping patterns in the ganglion cell layer and inner part of NBL. In the adult, Ids were expressed in retinal ganglion cells, amacrine cells, bipolar cells, and horizontal cells. No Id expression was found in Mller cells. Id1 and Id3 double-knockout mice (Id1(-/-)/Id3(-/-)) showed smaller retinal size compared to wild-type or heterozygous littermates. However, histological analyses in Id1 and Id3 single-knockout retinas revealed no obvious defects in developmental phenotype. Our results indicate that the expression of the Id family may play an important role in regulating retinal progenitor cell proliferation and differentiation.
Adult mammalian brains are capable of some structural plasticity. Although the basic cellular mechanisms underlying learning and memory are being revealed, extrinsic factors contributing to this plasticity remain unspecified. White-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) are particularly well suited to investigate brain plasticity because they show marked seasonal changes in structure and function of the hippocampus induced by a distinct environmental signal, viz., photoperiod (i.e. the number of hours of light/day). Compared to animals maintained in 16 h of light/day, exposure to 8 h of light/day for 10 weeks induces several phenotypic changes in P. leucopus, including reduction in brain mass and hippocampal volume. To investigate the functional consequences of reduced hippocampal size, we examined the effects of photoperiod on spatial learning and memory in the Barnes maze, and on long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus, a leading candidate for a synaptic mechanism underlying spatial learning and memory in rodents. Exposure to short days for 10 weeks decreased LTP in the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pathway of the hippocampus and impaired spatial learning and memory ability in the Barnes maze. Taken together, these results demonstrate a functional change in the hippocampus in male white-footed mice induced by day length.
Little is known regarding the descending inhibitory control of genital reflexes such as ejaculation and vaginal contractions. The brainstem nucleus paragigantocellularis (nPGi) projects bilaterally to the lumbosacral motoneuron pools that innervate the genital musculature of both male and female rats. Electrolytic nPGi lesions facilitate ejaculation in males, leading to the hypothesis that the nPGi is the source of descending inhibition to genital reflexes. However, the function of the nPGi in female sexual behavior remains to be elucidated. To this end, male and female rats received bilateral excitotoxic fiber-sparing lesions of the nPGi, and sexual behavior and sexual behavior-induced Fos expression were examined. In males, nPGi lesions facilitated copulation, supporting the hypothesis that the nPGi, and not fibers-of-passage, is the source of descending inhibition of genital reflexes in male rats. nPGi lesions in males did not alter sexual behavior-induced Fos expression in any brain region examined. nPGi-lesioned females spent significantly less time mating with stimulus males and had significantly longer ejaculation-return latencies compared to baseline. These results did not significantly differ from control females, but this trend warranted further analysis of the reinforcing value of sexual behavior. Both lesioned and non-lesioned females formed a conditioned place preference (CPP) for artificial vaginocervical stimulation (aVCS). However, post-reinforcement, nPGi-lesioned females did not differ in the percentage of time spent in the non-reinforced chamber versus the reinforced chamber, suggesting a weakened CPP for aVCS. nPGi lesions in females reduced sexual behavior-induced Fos expression throughout the hypothalamus and amygdala. Taken together, these results suggest that while nPGi lesions in males facilitate copulation, such lesions in females attenuate several aspects of sexual behavior resulting in a reduction in the rewarding value of copulation that may be mediated by nPGi control of genital reflexes. This work has important implications for the understanding and treatment of sexual dysfunction in people including delayed/premature ejaculation, involuntary vaginal spasms, and pain during intercourse.
Hematic administration of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in acute ischemic stroke may not only be an effective reparative treatment but also a brain protective therapy that improves neurological recovery. Our purpose was to study whether either i.v. or intracarotid (i.c.) administration of allogenic MSCs during the acute phase were effective in improving neurological recovery and decreasing brain damage in an experimental rat model. In a model of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO), we analyzed: neurological evaluation; MSCs migration and implantation; interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) levels; lesion volume; cell death; cellular proliferation; vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression and blood vessel number. Regardless of the administration route, treated groups showed better neurological recovery, without significant differences between the two groups. Migration and implantation of MSCs in the lesion area was observed in animals receiving i.c. but not i.v. treatment. The highest cytokine values were observed in the i.v. MSCs and i.c. control groups, and these levels were significantly different from the corresponding i.v. control and i.c. MSCs groups, respectively. In addition, there were significant differences between the i.v. MSCs and i.c. MSCs groups in IL-6 levels. Neither treatment reduced infarction volume. However, cell death, measured as TUNEL+ cells was decreased with significant differences between control groups. BrdU+ cells were also significantly increased in the peri-infarct zone at 14 days. VEGF expression was significantly higher in the i.c. MSCs group than in the i.c. control group and blood vessel number was significantly higher in treated groups than control groups with significant differences in the peri-infarct zone at 14 days. We conclude that allogenic MSCs administration shows therapeutic efficacy in our acute ischemic stroke model. Both routes demonstrably improved neurological recovery and provided brain protection.
It has been shown that elite pistol shooters are characterized by a power increase of wide cortical electroencephalographic (EEG) alpha (about 8-12 Hz) and beta (about 14-35 Hz) rhythms during the preparation of air pistol shots, possibly related to selective attentional and &quot;neural efficiency&quot; processes [Del Percio C, Babiloni C, Bertollo M, Marzano N, Iacoboni M, Infarinato F, Lizio R, Stocchi M, Robazza C, Cibelli G, Comani S, Eusebi F (2009a) Hum Brain Mapp 30(11):3527-3540; Del Percio C, Babiloni C, Marzano N, Iacoboni M, Infarinato F, Vecchio F, Lizio R, Aschieri P, Fiore A, Torn G, Gallamini M, Baratto M, Eusebi F (2009b) Brain Res Bull 79(3-4):193-200]. Here, we tested the hypothesis that such processes are associated with an enhanced functional coupling of posterior cortical regions involved in task-relevant attentional processes and visuo-motor transformations. To this aim, between-electrodes spectral coherence was computed from spatially enhanced EEG data collected during a previous study (i.e. right handed 18 elite air pistol shooters and 10 matched non-athletes; augmented 10-20 system; surface Laplacian estimation). Theta (about 4-6 Hz), low-frequency alpha (about 8-10 Hz), high-frequency alpha (about 10-12 Hz), low-frequency beta (14-22 Hz), high-frequency beta (23-35 Hz), and gamma (36-44 Hz) bands were considered. Statistical results showed that intra-hemispheric low-frequency alpha (parietal-temporal and parietal-occipital regions), high-frequency alpha (parietal-temporal and parietal-occipital regions), high-frequency beta, and gamma (parietal-temporal regions) coherence values were stable in amplitude in the elite athletes but not in the non-athletes during the preparation of pistol shots. The same applies to inter-hemispheric low-frequency alpha (parietal regions), high-frequency alpha (parietal regions), high-frequency beta and gamma coherence values. These findings suggest that under the present experimental conditions, elite athletes are characterized by the stabilization of functional coupling of preparatory EEG rhythms between &quot;visuo-spatial&quot; parietal area and other posterior cortical areas.
Hypocretins (orexins) are hypothalamic neuropeptides that play a crucial role in regulating sleep/wake states and autonomic functions including parasympathetic cardiac activity. We have recently demonstrated stimulation of the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus (LPGi), the nucleus which is thought to play a role in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep control, activates an inhibitory pathway to preganglionic cardiac vagal neurons in the nucleus ambiguus (NA). In this study we test the hypothesis that hypocretin-1 modulates the inhibitory neurotransmission to cardiac vagal neurons evoked by stimulation of the LPGi using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in an in vitro brain slice preparation from rats. Activation of hypocretin-1 receptors produced a dose-dependent and long-term facilitation of GABAergic postsynaptic currents evoked by electrical stimulation of the LPGi. Hypoxia/hypercapnia diminished LPGi-evoked GABAergic current in cardiac vagal neurons and this inhibition by hypoxia/hypercapnia was prevented by pre-application of hypocretin-1. The action of hypocretin-1 was blocked by the hypocretin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867. Facilitation of LPGi-evoked GABAergic current in cardiac vagal neurons under both normal condition and during hypoxia/hypercapnia could be the mechanism by which hypocretin-1 affects parasympathetic cardiac function and heart rate during REM sleep. Furthermore, our findings indicate a new potential mechanism that might be involved in the cardiac arrhythmias, bradycardia, and sudden cardiac death that can occur during sleep.
Brain networks and cognition have recently begun to attract attention: studies suggest that more efficiently wired resting-state brain networks are indeed correlated with better cognitive performance. &quot;Small-world&quot; brain networks combine local segregation with global integration, hereby subserving information processing. Furthermore, recent studies implicate that gender effects may be present in both network dynamics and its correlations with cognition. This study reports on the relation between resting-state functional brain topology with overall and domain-specific cognitive performance in healthy participants and possible gender differences herein. Healthy participants underwent neuropsychological tests, of which individual scores were converted to z-scores. Network analysis was performed on resting-state, eyes-closed magnetoencephalography (MEG) data, after determining functional connectivity between each pair of sensors. The clustering coefficient (local specialization), average path length (overall integration and efficiency) and &quot;small-world index&quot; (i.e. ratio between clustering and path length) were calculated in six frequency bands. 14 male and 14 female participants were included. Better total cognitive performance was related to increased local connectivity in the theta band, higher clustering coefficient (in delta and theta bands) and higher small-worldness (in theta and lower gamma bands). Women showed less clustering and shorter path length in the delta band. There were no significant correlations between network topology and cognitive functioning in females. In contrast, higher cognitive scores in men were associated with increased theta band clustering and small-worldness. These results provide further evidence for the value of functional brain network topology for cognitive functioning and suggest that gender is an important factor in this respect.
In the present study, the possible involvement of nitric oxide systems in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in nicotine's effect on morphine-induced amnesia and morphine state-dependent memory in adult male Wistar rats was investigated. Step-through type inhibitory avoidance task was used to test memory retrieval. Post-training administration of morphine (5 and 7.5 mg/kg) induced amnesia. The response induced by post-training morphine was significantly reversed by pre-test administration of the drug. Pre-test injection of nicotine (0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg s.c.) alone and nicotine (0.1, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg s.c.) plus an ineffective dose of morphine also significantly reversed the amnesia induced by morphine. Morphine amnesia was also prevented by pre-test administration of l-arginine (1 and 3 g/rat, intra-VTA), a nitric oxide (NO) precursor. Interestingly, an ineffective dose of nicotine (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) in combination with low dose of l-arginine (0.3 g/rat, intra-VTA) synergistically improved memory performance impaired by morphine given after training. In contrast, pre-test administration of NG nitro-l-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (l-NAME), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor (2 g/rat, intra-VTA) prevented the nicotine reversal of morphine effect on memory. The results suggest a possible role for nitric oxide of ventral tegmental area in the improving effect of nicotine on the morphine-induced amnesia.
Cortical dysplasia (CD) comprises a wide range of cerebral cortex alterations ranging from severe brain malformations to local disruption of the cortical structure. Most hypotheses focused on the role of embryonic/perinatal development insults as the main cause for the majority of CD. Rats with prenatal exposure to BCNU (1-3-bis-chloroethyl-nitrosurea) represent an injury-based model and reproduce many anatomical features seen in human patients with CD, such as altered cortical layering and the presence of heterotopia and dysmorphic/heterotopic neurons. With the aim to investigate the formation and evolution of CD during development, we analysed the expression of a panel of layer-specific genes (Nurr1, Er81, Ror- and Cux2, markers of layers VI, V, IV and superficial layers, respectively) in BCNU-treated cortices from E17 to postnatal day 14. By means of appropriate immunohistochemical markers, we also analysed the structural organization of embryonic ventricular zone and of glial and axonal fibres, substrates supporting radial and tangential migration, respectively. The main results of the present study are: (i) the ventricular zone appeared disorganized and the neuroependyma was partially disrupted; (ii) radial glia scaffold and tangential fibres were deeply disarranged, thus explaining the neuronal migration defects; (iii) cortical heterotopia were detectable by E19, whereas periventricular heterotopia were detectable after birth; (iv) both cortical and periventricular heterotopia showed a pseudo-laminar structure, with cells of the upper cortical layers in the core of the nodules and cells of layer IV and V at their border; (v) the distribution of GABAergic cells was altered since the embryonic stages, as a consequence of the derangement of tangential fibres. Our analysis sheds light on how a malformed cortex develops after a temporally discrete environmental insult and adds additional knowledge on specific aspects of the etiopathogenesis of CD.
Development of cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) is modulated by neuroactive steroids. Developing hippocampal pyramidal neurons retrogradely release a pregnenolone sulfate (PregS)-like neurosteroid that may contribute to glutamatergic synapse stabilization. We hypothesized that PregS could exert a similar effect on developing PCs. To test this hypothesis, we performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from PCs in acute cerebellar vermis slices from neonatal rats. PregS induced a robust (3000%) and reversible increase in AMPA receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (AMPA-mEPSC) frequency without affecting the amplitude, time-to-rise, or half-width of these events. PregS also increased the frequency of GABA(A) receptor-mediated miniature postsynaptic currents but to a significantly lesser extent (&lt;100%). The PregS-induced increase of AMPA-mEPSC frequency was not significantly decreased by antagonists of receptors (NMDA, glycine, 7 nicotinic acetylcholine and 1) that have been shown to modulate glutamatergic transmission at PCs and/or mediate the actions of PregS on neurotransmitter release. Ca(2+) chelation experiments suggested that PregS acts by increasing presynaptic terminal [Ca(2+)](i), an effect that is independent of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, but is blocked by the antagonist of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels, La(3+). PregS also increased the amplitude of EPSCs evoked by climbing fiber (CF) stimulation and decreased the paired-pulse ratio of these events. Neither CF nor parallel fiber-evoked EPSCs were affected by PregS in slices from juvenile rats. These results suggest that glutamate release at CF-to-PC synapses is an important target of PregS in the neonatal cerebellar cortex, an effect that may play a role in the refinement of these synapses.
Hypoxic respiratory and cardiovascular responses in mammals are mediated by peripheral chemoreceptor afferents which are relayed centrally via the solitary tract nucleus (NTS) in dorsomedial medulla to other cardiorespiratory-related brainstem regions such as ventrolateral medulla (VLM). Here, we test the hypothesis that peripheral chemoafferents could also be relayed directly to the Klliker-Fuse/parabrachial complex in dorsolateral pons, an area traditionally thought to subserve pneumotaxic and cardiovascular regulation. Experiments were performed on adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Brainstem neurons with axons projecting to the dorsolateral pons were retrogradely labeled by microinjection with choleras toxin subunit B (CTB). Neurons involved in peripheral chemoreflex were identified by hypoxia-induced c-Fos expression. We found that double-labeled neurons (i.e. immunopositive to both CTB and c-Fos) were localized mostly in the commissural and medial subnuclei of NTS and to a lesser extent in the ventrolateral NTS subnucleus, VLM and ventrolateral pontine A5 region. Extracellular recordings from the commissural and medial NTS subnuclei revealed that some hypoxia-excited NTS neurons could be antidromically activated by electrical stimulations at the dorsolateral pons. These findings demonstrate that hypoxia-activated afferent inputs are relayed to the Klliker-Fuse/parabrachial complex directly via the commissural and medial NTS and indirectly via the ventrolateral NTS subnucleus, VLM and A5 region. These pontine-projecting peripheral chemoafferent inputs may play an important role in the modulation of cardiorespiratory regulation by dorsolateral pons.
Compensated respiratory acidosis has been observed in a significant number of patients with active vestibular disease. We therefore hypothesized that the inner ear may play an unrecognized integral role in respiratory control. To test this premise, we investigated whether mice with induced inner ear injury demonstrated any alteration in their respiratory response to inhaled carbon dioxide (CO(2)). Experimental mice and control mice were included in two separate experiments. Intra-tympanic gentamycin injections were administered to induce inner ear damage in experimental animals. Hearing loss and vestibular dysfunction were tested 1-week after injections to confirm presence of inner ear insult, following which the animal's respiratory response to inhalation of 8% CO(2) was examined. Mice with inner ear injury (n=60) displayed a significantly diminished hypercapnic ventilatory response (HCVR). This contrasted with the normal HCVR seen in control mice that had not undergone tympanic injections (n=30), controls that received tympanic injections with saline (n=5), and controls that had gentamicin administered systemically (n=5). In response to inspired CO(2), the mean respiratory frequency of control mice increased by an average of 50% over their baseline values for both parts of the experiment. In contrast, the ear-damaged experimental group mean values increased by only three breaths per minute (bpm) (2%) in the first experiment and by 28 bpm (11%) in the second experiment. Inner ear damage significantly reduces the respiratory response to CO(2) inhalation. In addition to the established role of the inner ear organ in hearing and balance, this alludes to an unidentified function of the inner ear and its interconnecting neuronal pathways in respiratory regulation. This finding may offer valuable new clues for disease states with abnormal respiratory control where inner ear dysfunction may be present.
Cadherin superfamily genes play a role in a wide variety of developmental processes and mature functions of the vertebrate brain. In the present study, we mapped in situ the expression pattern of five classic cadherins (Cdh4, Cdh6, Cdh7, Cdh8, Cdh11) and eight -protocadherins (Pcdh1, Pcdh7, Pcdh8, Pcdh9, Pcdh10, Pcdh11, Pcdh17 and Pcdh19) in the primary somatosensory cortex of the adult mouse. All of these cadherins show layer-specific expression profiles in primary somatosensory cortex. Some cadherins (for example, Cdh4, Cdh7, Pcdh8) mark subsets of cells within a given lamina, while other cadherins (Cdh11 and Pcdh10) are expressed more widely in multiple layers. Results from tyramide-based double-fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) provide evidence that most single neurons express more than one cadherin in a combinatorial fashion in all layers of cerebral cortex. This combinatorial code is rather comprehensive because pairwise expression of cadherins can assume any type of combination (complementarity, partial or complete overlap, subset-specific expression, cell-size specific expression, etc.). We propose that the combinatorial expression of multiple cadherin genes contributes to the molecular specification of the vast complexity of neurons in cerebral cortex.
In the vestibular nuclei, GABAergic and glycinergic neurons play important roles in signal processing for normal function, during development, and after peripheral vestibular lesions. The chicken tangential nucleus is a major avian vestibular nucleus, whose principal cells are projection neurons with axons transmitting signals to the oculomotor nuclei and/or cervical spinal cord. Antibodies against GABA, glycine and glutamate were applied to study immunolabeling in the tangential nucleus of 5-7 days old chicken using fluorescence detection and confocal imaging. All the principal cells and primary vestibular fibers were negative for GABA and glycine, but positive for glutamate. GABA is the predominant inhibitory neurotransmitter in the tangential nucleus, labeling most of the longitudinal fibers in transverse tissue sections and more than 50% of all synaptic terminals. A large fraction of GABAergic terminals were derived from the longitudinal fibers, with fewer horizontal GABAergic fibers detected. GABA synapses terminated mainly on dendrites in the tangential nucleus. In contrast, glycine labeling represented about one-third of all synaptic terminals, and originated from horizontally-coursing fibers. A distinct pool of glycine-positive terminals was found consistently around the principal cell bodies. While no GABA or glycine-positive neuron cell bodies were found in the tangential nucleus, several pools of immunopositive neurons were present in the neighboring vestibular nuclei, mainly in the descending vestibular and superior vestibular nuclei. GABA and glycine double-labeling experiments revealed little colocalization of these two neurotransmitters in synaptic terminals or fibers in the tangential nucleus. Our data support the concept of GABA and glycine playing critical roles as inhibitory neurotransmitters in the tangential nucleus. The two inhibitory neurotransmitters have distinct and separate origins and display contrasting subcellular termination patterns, which underscore their discrete roles in vestibular signal processing.
Norepinephrine and serotonin involvement in nociceptive functions is supported by observations of analgesic effects of norepinephrine transporter (NET) and serotonin transporter (SERT) inhibitors such as amitriptyline. However, the relative contribution of NET and SERT to baseline nociception, as well as amitriptyline analgesia, is unclear. Amitriptyline and morphine analgesia in wild-type (WT) mice and littermates with gene knockout (KO) of SERT, NET or both transporters was conducted using the hotplate and tail-flick tests. Hypoalgesia was observed in NET KO mice, and to a lesser extent in SERT KO mice. The magnitude of this hypoalgesia in NET KO mice was so profound that it limited the assessment of drug-induced analgesia. Nonetheless, the necessary exclusion of these subjects because of profound baseline hypoalgesia strongly supports the role of norepinephrine and NET in basal nociceptive behavior while indicating a much smaller role for serotonin and SERT. To further clarify the role of NET and SERT in basal nociceptive sensitivity further experiments were conducted in SERT KO and NET KO mice across a range of temperatures. NET KO mice were again found to have pronounced thermal hypoalgesia compared to WT mice in both the hotplate and tail-flick tests, while only limited effects were observed in SERT KO mice. Furthermore, in the acetic acid writhing test of visceral nociception pronounced hypoalgesia was again found in NET KO mice, but no change in SERT KO mice. As some of these effects may have resulted from developmental consequences of NET KO, the effects of the selective NET blocker nisoxetine and the selective SERT blocker fluoxetine were also examined in WT mice: only nisoxetine produced analgesia in these mice. Collectively these data suggest that NET has a far greater role in determining baseline analgesia, and perhaps other analgesic effects, than SERT in mice.
Syntaxin 1A is a membrane protein playing an integral role in exocytosis and membrane trafficking. The superficial dorsal horn (SDH) of the spinal cord, where nociceptive synaptic transmission is modulated, is rich in this protein. We recently reported that peripheral nerve ligation-induced nociceptive responses are considerably enhanced in syntaxin 1A-knockout mice [Takasusuki T, Fujiwara T, Yamaguchi S, Fukushima T, Akagawa K, Hori Y (2007) Eur J Neurosci 26:2179-2187]. On the basis of this earlier finding, we hypothesized that syntaxin 1A is involved in peripheral nerve injury-induced nociceptive plasticity. In this study, we examined this hypothesis by using nociceptive behavioral studies and tight-seal whole-cell recordings from neurons in the SDH of adult mouse spinal cord slices. Partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL) in adult male Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) mice increased the frequency of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). The amplitude of the mEPSCs did not exhibit any changes, suggesting that peripheral nerve injury is associated with increased synaptic release of excitatory neurotransmitters. Western blot and real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses revealed that PSNL gradually decreased the expression level of syntaxin 1A in the spinal SDH. This downregulation of syntaxin 1A took several days to develop, whereas behavioral allodynia developed within one day after PSNL. Syntaxin 1A knockdown by intrathecal injection of an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide against the syntaxin 1A gene led to the gradual development of allodynia. These results indicate a possible involvement of syntaxin 1A downregulation in the late maintenance phase of peripheral nerve injury-induced allodynia. In addition, syntaxin 1A knockdown by ribonucleic acid interference enhanced the axonal elongation and sprouting of spinal dorsal horn neurons in culture, suggesting that PSNL-induced syntaxin 1A downregulation may result in the rearrangement of the synaptic connections between neurons in the spinal dorsal horn. Taken together, it is possible to conclude that syntaxin 1A might be involved in spinal nociceptive plasticity induced by peripheral nerve injury.
The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family supports neurons by activating the tyrosine kinase receptor RET. The two main isoforms of RET, RET9 and RET51, differ in their carboxyl termini and have been implicated with distinct functions in the enteric and central nervous systems. Previously we reported the cellular localization of GDNF, neurturin and RET9 in the olfactory system [Maroldt H, Kaplinovsky T, Cunningham AM (2005) J Neurocytol 34:241-255]. In the current study, we examined immunohistochemical expression of RET9 and RET51 in neonatal and adult rat olfactory neuroepithelium (ON) and bulb to explore their potential functional roles. In the ON, RET9 was expressed by olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) throughout the olfactory neuroepithelial sheet, whereas RET51 was restricted to ORNs situated in ventromedial and ventrolateral regions. Within these regions, RET51 was expressed by a subset of RET9-expressing ORNs. In olfactory bulb, RET9 expression was primarily on cell bodies, including olfactory ensheathing and periglomerular cells, and again, RET51 was expressed by a subset of RET9-expressing cells. RET51 was identified on axons in the olfactory nerve layer and glomerular neuropil, but only in the ventromedial and ventrolateral regions of the bulb. This regionalization correlated with the predicted axonal projection from expressing regions of the ON. RET51 was also expressed on dendrites in the external plexiform layer and glomerular neuropil. These results suggest RET9 may be the predominant functional isoform in the ON while RET51 plays a more selective role in a restricted region of the olfactory neuroepithelial sheet. In the bulb, RET9 is likely the main functional isoform while RET51 may be important in axonal and dendritic function/targeting.
Arousals are often considered to be events which have an abrupt onset and offset, indicating abrupt changes in the state of the cortex. We hypothesized that cortical state, as reflected in electroencephalograph (EEG) signals, exhibits progressive systematic changes before and after a spontaneous, isolated arousal and that the time courses of the spectral components of the EEG before and after an arousal would differ between healthy middle-aged and elderly subjects. We analyzed the power spectrum and Sample Entropy of the C3A2 EEG before and after isolated arousals from 20 middle-aged (47.22.0 years) and 20 elderly (78.43.8 years) women using polysomnograms from the Sleep Heart Health Study database. In middle-aged women, all EEG spectral band powers &lt;16 Hz exhibited a significant increase relative to baseline at some time in the 21 s before an arousal, but only low- (0.2-2.0 Hz) and high-frequency (2.0-4.0 Hz) delta increased in elderly and only during the last 7 s pre-arousal. Post-arousal, all frequency bands below 12 Hz transiently fell below pre-arousal baseline in both age groups. Consistent with these findings, Sample Entropy decreased steadily before an arousal, increased markedly during the arousal, and remained above pre-arousal baseline levels for 30 s after the arousal. In middle-aged, but not in elderly, women the presence of early pre-arousal low delta power was associated with shorter arousals. We propose that this attenuation of the effect of the arousing stimulus may be related to the slow (&lt;1 Hz) cortical state oscillation, and that prolonged alterations of cortical state due to arousals may contribute to the poor correlation between indices of arousals and indices of sleepiness or impaired cognitive function.
The ventral bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BST) and medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) of gerbils contain cells that regulate male sex behavior via a largely uncrossed pathway to the retrorubral field (RRF). Our goal was to learn more about cells at the pathway source and target. To determine if the pathway uses GABA as its transmitter, we used immunocytochemistry (ICC) to study glutamic acid decarboxlyase(67) (GAD(67)) colocalization with fluoro-gold (FG) in the ventral BST and MPN after applying FG to the RRF. To determine if the pathway is activated with mating, we studied FG-Fos colocalization in the ventral BST of recently mated males. The ventral BST expresses Fos with mating and is the major pathway source. To determine to what extent other GABAergic cells in the ventral BST are activated with mating, we studied Fos colocalization with GAD(67) mRNA visualized by in situ hybridization (ISH). We also looked for GAD(67) mRNA in RRF cells. Almost all ventral BST and MPNm cells projecting to the RRF (95-97%) and most ventral BST cells activated with mating (89%), were GABAergic. GABAergic cells were also seen in the RRF. RRF-projecting cells represented 37% of ventral BST cells activated with mating. Their activation may reflect arousal and anticipation of sexual reward. Among ventral BST cells that project to the RRF, 14% were activated with mating, consistent with how much of this pathway is needed for mating. The activated GABAergic cells that do not project to the RRF may release GABA locally and inhibit ejaculation.
Aluminium has been proposed as an environmental factor that may affect several enzymes and other biomolecules related to neurotoxicity and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The promising protective effect of aqueous saffron extract and honey syrup on neurotoxicity induced by aluminuim chloride (AlCl(3)) may be derived from their own antioxidant properties. Balb/c and C57BL/6 mice (35-40 g) were injected with AlCl(3), 40 mg/kg/day for 45 days. Each mice strain was divided into four groups: AlCl(3) treated group, AlCl(3) plus water saffron extract group (administered with saffron extract at 200 mg/kg b.w. once a day for the experimental period), AlCl(3) plus honey syrup group (administered with honey syrup at 500 mg/kg b.w. for 45 days). The control group received no treatment. Oxidative stress and antioxidant status were estimated in the brain and differential display was performed for both mice strains to scan the mRNA in the treated and non treated groups. In addition, the up and down regulated genes were isolated, cloned and sequenced. The sequence analysis was performed and compared with the other genes cited on GenBank. The results show that there was a decrease in the activity of the antioxidant enzymes (P0.001) such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) in the AlCl3 groups of both mice strains. The level of brain thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) showed a significant increase (P0.001) of lipid peroxidation (LPO) in the AlCl(3) groups. There was an indication of carcinogenicity in the AlCl(3) treated group representing an increase in serum tumor markers such as arginase and a-l-fucosidase. More than 350 band patterns were obtained and about 22 different up-down regulated genes were observed. The sequence analysis of the three selected up-regulated genes revealed that they are similar to B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), R-spondin and the inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase genes (INPP4B), respectively. The R-spondin gene was up-regulated in all examined animals except the control ones but the other two genes were only induced in the animals treated with AlCl(3) and honey syrup. We conclude that the biochemical and molecular studies showed the neurotoxicity of AlCl(3) in the brains of mice. In addition, there was an ameliorative change with saffron extract and honey syrup against AlCl(3) neurotoxicity. The obtained molecular results suggest that AlCl(3) made induction for BCL-W gene, which is an anticancer gene or belongs to the DNA repair system in the brain cells, as well as for R-spondin and inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase genes, which help in cell proliferation.
Botulinum neurotoxin serotype A (BoNT/A) acts by cleaving synaptosome-associated-protein-25 (SNAP-25) in nerve terminals to inhibit neuronal release and shows long-lasting antinociceptive action in neuropathic pain. However, its precise mechanism of action remains unclear. Our study aimed to characterize BoNT/A-induced neuroimmunological changes after chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve. In the ipsilateral lumbar spinal cords of CCI-exposed rats, the mRNA of microglial marker (complement component 1q, C1q), astroglial marker (glial fibrillary acidic protein, GFAP), and prodynorphin were upregulated, as measured by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). No changes appeared in mRNA for proenkephalin, pronociceptin, or neuronal and inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS1 and NOS2, respectively). In the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), an ipsilateral upregulation of prodynorphin, pronociceptin, C1q, GFAP, NOS1 and NOS2 mRNA and a downregulation of proenkephalin mRNA were observed. A single intraplantar BoNT/A (75 pg/paw) injection induced long-lasting antinociception in this model. BoNT/A diminished the injury-induced ipsilateral spinal upregulation of C1q mRNA. In the ipsilateral DRG a significant decrease of C1q-positive cell activation and of the upregulation of prodynorphin, pronociceptin and NOS1 mRNA was also observed following BoNT/A admistration. BoNT/A also diminished the injury-induced upregulation of SNAP-25 expression in both structures. We provide evidence that BoNT/A impedes injury-activated neuronal function in structures distant from the injection site, which is demonstrated by its influence on NOS1, prodynorphin and pronociceptin mRNA levels in the DRG. Moreover, the silence of microglia/macrophages after BoNT/A administration could be secondary to the inhibition of neuronal activity, but this decrease in neuroimmune interactions could be the key to the long-lasting BoNT/A effect on neuropathic pain.
It has been proposed that two amino acid substitutions in the transcription factor FOXP2 have been positively selected during human evolution and influence aspects of speech and language. Recently it was shown that when these substitutions are introduced into the endogenous Foxp2 gene of mice, they increase dendrite length and long-term depression (LTD) in medium spiny neurons of the striatum. Here we investigated if these effects are found in other brain regions. We found that neurons in the cerebral cortex, the thalamus and the striatum have increased dendrite lengths in the humanized mice whereas neurons in the amygdala and the cerebellum do not. In agreement with previous work we found increased LTD in medium spiny neurons, but did not detect alterations of synaptic plasticity in Purkinje cells. We conclude that although Foxp2 is expressed in many brain regions and has multiple roles during mammalian development, the evolutionary changes that occurred in the protein in human ancestors specifically affect brain regions that are connected via cortico-basal ganglia circuits.
Sharp waves and the concurrent high-frequency &quot;ripple&quot; oscillation (100-200 Hz) is a prominent intrinsic hippocampal network activity that occurs during slow-wave sleep and resting wakefulness with an important role in memory processes. Present data suggest that the generation of sharp wave-ripple (SWRs) requires a complex interaction between the various components of the hippocampal network with the important involvement of GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R)-mediated transmission. The positive modulators of GABA(A)Rs zolpidem and diazepam differ in their selectivity for the various subtypes of GABA(A)Rs. Only zolpidem preferentially binds to 1-containing receptors whereas diazepam, but not zolpidem, also activates 5-GABA(A)Rs. In this study using an in vitro model of SWRs we examined the hypothesis that the two drugs distinctly affect the various characteristics of SWRs. Remarkably, the two drugs displayed opposite effects on the ripple oscillation. Zolpidem enhanced whereas diazepam suppressed ripples. Furthermore diazepam, but not zolpidem, produced a temporal dissociation between ripples and sharp waves. Both drugs suppressed the generation of SWRs in the form of sequences of multiple events (i.e. clusters). It was also observed that at low concentrations both drugs increased the rate of initiation of episodes of SWR. At high concentration zolpidem but not diazepam continued to increase the rate of episodes of SWRs. We propose that an accurate yet dynamic balance between excitation and inhibition in specific sites of the hippocampal network distinctly regulates the generation of basic features of SWRs such as ripples and sequential activation of the neuronal assemblies which have particular functional roles.
The pancreatitis-associated protein (PAP) family (also known as the regenerating gene (Reg) family) is a group of 16 kDa secretory proteins structurally classified as the calcium dependent-type lectin superfamily. Some PAP family members are expressed in neurons following peripheral nerve injury and traumatic brain injury. To determine whether PAP family members are expressed in non-traumatic brain injury, expressions were analyzed following kainic acid (KA)-induced seizure. PAP-I (also known as Reg2 in rat and RegIII-beta in mouse) and pancreatitis associated protein-III (PAP-III; RegIII-gamma in mouse) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) was transiently expressed in some restricted areas, such as the hippocampus and parahippocampal area; expression was observed immediately at a maximal level 1 day after seizure. Expression disappeared within 3 days after seizure. In situ hybridization (ISH) and immunohistochemistry revealed neuronal PAP-I and PAP-III expression in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, perirhinal and entorhinal cortices, and the posterior cortical nucleus of the amygdala. The number of PAP-III mRNA-positive neurons was significantly greater than PAP-I mRNA-positive neurons. The majority of positive neurons co-localized with c-Jun, but not with glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). These results may suggest that PAP-I and PAP-III induction in non-GABAergic neurons would protect neurons against damage following seizure.
In larval lamprey, spinal locomotor activity can be initiated by pharmacological microstimulation from the following higher order brain locomotor areas [Paggett et al. (2004) Neuroscience 125:25-33; Jackson et al. (2007) J Neurophysiol 97:3229-3241]: rostrolateral rhombencephalon (RLR); ventromedial diencephalon (VMD); or dorsolateral mesencephalon (DLM). In the present study, pharmacological microstimulation with excitatory amino acids (EAAs) or their agonists in the brains of in vitro brain/spinal cord preparations was used to determine the sizes, pharmacology, and organization of these locomotor areas. First, the RLR, DLM and VMD locomotor areas were confined to relatively small areas of the brain, and stimulation as little as 50 m outside these areas was ineffective or elicited tonic or uncoordinated motor activity. Second, pharmacological stimulation with NMDA, kainate, or AMPA in the VMD or DLM reliably initiated well-coordinated spinal locomotor activity. In the RLR, stimulation with all three ionotropic EAA receptor agonists could initiate spinal locomotor activity, but NMDA or AMPA was more reliable than kainate. Third, with synaptic transmission blocked only in the brain, stimulation in the RLR, VMD, or DLM no longer initiated spinal locomotor activity, suggesting that these locomotor areas do not directly activate spinal locomotor networks. Fourth, following a complete transection at the mesencephalon-rhombencephalon border, stimulation in the RLR no longer initiated spinal motor activity. Thus, the RLR locomotor area does not appear able to initiate spinal locomotor activity by neural circuits confined entirely within the rhombencephalon but requires more rostral neural centers, such as those in the VMD and DLM, as previously proposed [Paggett et al. (2004) Neuroscience 125:25-33].
Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a cytokine with important endogenous and therapeutic anti-inflammatory effects. Given this, it is of interest to investigate factors that modulate IL-10 levels in the central nervous system. IL-10 is released after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation of microglia. Microglia also express functional glutamate receptors and in inflammatory conditions are exposed to increased levels of glutamate. The aim of this research, then, is to investigate whether glutamate can modulate lipopolysaccharide stimulation of IL-10 release from neonatal rat spinal cord microglia. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) were used to quantify IL-10 release from cultured neonatal spinal cord microglia and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to measure IL-10 mRNA expression. Glutamate (1 mM) significantly increased LPS (1 g/ml)-stimulated IL-10 release from microglia by 172% (EC(50) of 103 M) and significantly upregulated IL-10 mRNA levels. Glutamate potentiated LPS-stimulated IL-10 release by binding all subtypes of glutamate receptor. These results show that glutamate substantially increases the release of an anti-inflammatory cytokine from neonatal spinal cord microglia activated by a high concentration of LPS.
Despite the presence of Zn(2+) in high levels in Parkinson brain, it is not yet clearly answered whether and how Zn(2+) alters the electrical activity of neurons in substantia nigra (SN). Here we show that Zn(2+) alters the intrinsic activity of nigral dopamine neurons in dual ways, that is, excitation or inhibition, by modulating the gating properties of a transient A-type K(+) (K(A)) channel. Depending on the holding potential, Zn(2+) could reduce or enhance a transient outward K(+) current (I(A)) in nigral dopamine neurons. Zn(2+) slowed the kinetics of both I(A) activation and inactivation with the rate of activation much more reduced than that of inactivation. Zn(2+) also increased the rate of release from I(A) inactivation. Both activation and inactivation I(A) curves were shifted by Zn(2+) towards positive potentials, but the positive shift of the inactivation curve was much greater than that of the activation curve. We propose that all these effects of Zn(2+) on K(A) channel gating properties underlie the dual mode of Zn(2+) action on I(A), that is, attenuation or potentiation depending on membrane potential. As a result, Zn(2+) increased a bursting activity of a nigral dopamine neuron elicited by anodal break excitation presumably through I(A) reduction at a hyperpolarizing state, whereas Zn(2+) decreased its tonic activity at either resting or depolarizing states where I(A) was increased. This was further supported by the observations that 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a well-known K(A) channel blocker, strengthened or counteracted the effect of Zn(2+) on the intrinsic excitability of nigral dopamine neurons.
Dysregulation of Ca(2+) signaling following oxidative stress is an important pathophysiological mechanism of many chronic neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, age-related macular degeneration, glaucomatous and diabetic retinopathies. However, the underlying mechanisms of disturbed intracellular Ca(2+) signaling remain largely unknown. We here describe a novel mechanism for increased intracellular Ca(2+) release following oxidative stress in a neuronal cell line. Using an experimental approach that included quantitative polymerase chain reaction, quantitative immunoblotting, microfluorimetry and the optical imaging of intracellular Ca(2+) release, we show that sub-lethal tert-butyl hydroperoxide-mediated oxidative stress result in a selective up-regulation of type-2 inositol-1,4,5,-trisphophate receptors. This oxidative stress mediated change was detected both at the transcriptional and translational level and functionally resulted in increased Ca(2+) release into the nucleoplasm from the membranes of the nuclear envelope at a given receptor-specific stimulus. Our data describe a novel source of Ca(2+) dysregulation induced by oxidative stress with potential relevance for differential subcellular Ca(2+) signaling specifically within the nucleus and the development of novel neuroprotective strategies in neurodegenerative disorders.
Doxorubicin (Dox) is a potent, broad-spectrum chemotherapeutic drug used around the world. Despite its effectiveness, it has a wide range of toxic side effects, many of which most likely result from its inherent pro-oxidant activity. It has been reported that Dox has toxic effects on normal tissues, including brain tissue. The present study tested the protective effect of a xanthone derivative of Garcinia Mangostana against Dox-induced neuronal toxicity. Xanthone can prevent Dox from causing mononuclear cells to increase the level of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF). We show that xanthone given to mice before Dox administration suppresses protein carbonyl, nitrotyrosine and 4-hydroxy-2'-nonenal (4HNE)-adducted proteins in brain tissue. The levels of the pro-apoptotic proteins p53 and Bax and the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-xL were significantly increased in Dox-treated mice compared with the control group. Consistent with the increase of apoptotic markers, the levels of caspase-3 activity and TUNEL-positive cells were also increased in Dox-treated mice. Pretreatment with xanthone suppressed Dox-induced increases in all indicators of injury tested. Together, the results suggest that xanthone prevents Dox-induced central nervous system toxicity, at least in part, by suppression of Dox-mediated increases in circulating TNF. Thus, xanthone is a good candidate for prevention of systemic effects resulting from reactive oxygen generating anticancer therapeutics.
When goal-directed movements are inaccurate, two responses are generated by the brain: a fast motor correction toward the target and an adaptive motor recalibration developing progressively across subsequent trials. For the saccadic system, there is a clear dissociation between the fast motor correction (corrective saccade production) and the adaptive motor recalibration (primary saccade modification). Error signals used to trigger corrective saccades and to induce adaptation are based on post-saccadic visual feedback. The goal of this study was to determine if similar or different error signals are involved in saccadic adaptation and in corrective saccade generation. Saccadic accuracy was experimentally altered by systematically displacing the visual target during motor execution. Post-saccadic error signals were studied by manipulating visual information in two ways. First, the duration of the displaced target after primary saccade termination was set at 15, 50, 100 or 800 ms in different adaptation sessions. Second, in some sessions, the displaced target was followed by a visual mask that interfered with visual processing. Because they rely on different mechanisms, the adaptation of reactive saccades and the adaptation of voluntary saccades were both evaluated. We found that saccadic adaptation and corrective saccade production were both affected by the manipulations of post-saccadic visual information, but in different ways. This first finding suggests that different types of error signal processing are involved in the induction of these two motor corrections. Interestingly, voluntary saccades required a longer duration of post-saccadic target presentation to reach the same amount of adaptation as reactive saccades. Finally, the visual mask interfered with the production of corrective saccades only during the voluntary saccades adaptation task. These last observations suggest that post-saccadic perception depends on the previously performed action and that the differences between saccade categories of motor correction and adaptation occur at an early level of visual processing.
Could it be possible that, in the not-so-distant future, we will be able to reshape the human body so as to have extra limbs? A third arm helping us out with the weekly shopping in the local grocery store, or an extra artificial limb assisting a paralysed person? Here we report a perceptual illusion in which a rubber right hand, placed beside the real hand in full view of the participant, is perceived as a supernumerary limb belonging to the participant's own body. This effect was supported by questionnaire data in conjunction with physiological evidence obtained from skin conductance responses when physically threatening either the rubber hand or the real one. In four well-controlled experiments, we demonstrate the minimal required conditions for the elicitation of this &quot;supernumerary hand illusion&quot;. In the fifth, and final experiment, we show that the illusion reported here is qualitatively different from the traditional rubber hand illusion as it is characterised by less disownership of the real hand and a stronger feeling of having two right hands. These results suggest that the artificial hand 'borrows' some of the multisensory processes that represent the real hand, leading to duplication of touch and ownership of two right arms. This work represents a major advance because it challenges the traditional view of the gross morphology of the human body as a fundamental constraint on what we can come to experience as our physical self, by showing that the body representation can easily be updated to incorporate an additional limb.
Mouse cone photoreceptors, like those of most mammals including humans, express cone opsins derived from two ancient families: S-opsin (gene Opn1sw) and M-opsin (gene Opn1mw). Most C57Bl/6 mouse cones co-express both opsins, but in dorso-ventral counter-gradients, with M-opsin dominant in the dorsal retina and S-opsin in the ventral retina, and S-opsin 4-fold greater overall. We created a mouse lacking S-opsin expression by the insertion of a Neomycin selection cassette between the third and fourth exons of the Opn1sw gene (Opn1sw(Neo/Neo)). In strong contrast to published results characterizing mice lacking rhodopsin (Rho/) in which retinal rods undergo cell death by 2.5 months, cones of the Opn1sw(Neo/Neo) mouse remain viable for at least 1.5 yrs, even though many ventral cones do not form outer segments, as revealed by high resolution immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Suction pipette recordings revealed that functional ventral cones of the Opn1sw(Neo/Neo) mouse not only phototransduce light with normal kinetics, but are more sensitive to mid-wavelength light than their WT counterparts. Quantitative Western blot analysis revealed the basis of the heightened sensitivity to be increased M-opsin expression. Because S- and M-opsin transcripts must compete for the same translational machinery in cones where they are co-expressed, elimination of S-opsin mRNA in ventral Opn1sw(Neo/Neo) cones likely increases M-opsin expression by relieving competition for translational machinery, revealing an important consequence of eliminating a dominant transcript. Overall, our results reveal a striking capacity for cone photoreceptors to function with much reduced opsin expression, and to remain viable in the absence of an outer segment.
We are all voice experts. First and foremost, we can produce and understand speech, and this makes us a unique species. But in addition to speech perception, we routinely extract from voices a wealth of socially-relevant information in what constitutes a more primitive, and probably more universal, non-linguistic mode of communication. Consider the following example: you are sitting in a plane, and you can hear a conversation in a foreign language in the row behind you. You do not see the speakers' faces, and you cannot understand the speech content because you do not know the language. Yet, an amazing amount of information is available to you. You can evaluate the physical characteristics of the different protagonists, including their gender, approximate age and size, and associate an identity to the different voices. You can form a good idea of the different speaker's mood and affective state, as well as more subtle cues as the perceived attractiveness or dominance of the protagonists. In brief, you can form a fairly detailed picture of the type of social interaction unfolding, which a brief glance backwards can on the occasion help refine - sometimes surprisingly so. What are the acoustical cues that carry these different types of vocal information? How does our brain process and analyse this information? Here we briefly review an emerging field and the main tools used in voice perception research.
Neural networks underlying visual perception exhibit oscillations at different frequencies (e.g.,). But how these map onto distinct aspects of visual perception remains elusive. Recent electroencephalography data indicate that theta or beta frequencies at parietal sensors increase in amplitude when conscious perception is dominated by global or local features, respectively, of a reversible visual stimulus. But this provides only correlative, noninterventional evidence. Here we show via transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) interventions that short rhythmic bursts of right-parietal TMS at theta or beta frequency can causally benefit processing of global or local levels, respectively, for hierarchical visual stimuli, especially in the context of salient incongruent distractors. This double dissociation between theta and beta TMS reveals distinct causal roles for particular frequencies in processing global versus local visual features.
Mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell, play a critical role in several metabolic processes and apoptotic pathways. Multiple evidences suggest that mitochondria may be crucial in ageing-related neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, mitochondrial haplogroups have been linked to multiple area of medicine, from normal ageing to diseases, including neurodegeneration. Polymorphisms within the mitochondrial genome might lead to impaired energy generation and to increased amount of reactive oxygen species, having either susceptibility or protective role in several diseases. Here, we highlight the role of the mitochondrial haplogroups in the pathogenetic cascade leading to diseases, with special attention to Alzheimer's disease.



An amazing feature of our visual system is the ability to detect and track objects in the stream of continually changing retinal images. Theories have proposed that the system creates temporary internal representations that persist across changing images, providing continuity. However, how such representations are formed in the brain is not known. Here we examined the time course of the responses of border-ownership-selective neurons in the visual cortex to displays that portray object continuity. We found that the neurons signal border ownership immediately when new objects appear, but when a border that has been assigned to one object is reassigned to another object while the first remains in the display, the initial responses persist. The neurons continue to signal the initial assignment despite the presence of contradicting figure--ground cues. We propose that border ownership selectivity reflects mechanisms that create object continuity.
Behavior, in its broadest definition, can be defined as the motor manifestation of physiologic processes. As such, all behaviors manifest through the motor system. In the fields of neuroscience and orthopedics, locomotion is a commonly evaluated behavior for a variety of disease models. For example, locomotor recovery after traumatic injury to the nervous system is one of the most commonly evaluated behaviors . Though locomotion can be evaluated using a variety of endpoint measurements (e.g. time taken to complete a locomotor task, etc), semiquantitative kinematic measures (e.g. ordinal rating scales (e.g. Basso Beattie and Bresnahan locomotor (BBB) rating scale, etc)) and surrogate measures of behaviour (e.g. muscle force, nerve conduction velocity, etc), only kinetics (force measurements) and kinematics (measurements of body segments in space) provide a detailed description of the strategy by which an animal is able to locomote . Though not new, kinematic and kinetic measurements of locomoting rodents is now more readily accessible due to the availability of commercially available equipment designed for this purpose. Importantly, however, experimenters need to be very familiar with theory of biomechanical analyses and understand the benefits and limitations of these forms of analyses prior to embarking on what will become a relatively labor-intensive study. The present paper aims to describe a method for collecting kinematic and ground reaction force data using commercially available equipment. Details of equipment and apparatus set-up, pre-training of animals, inclusion and exclusion criteria of acceptable runs, and methods for collecting the data are described. We illustrate the utility of this behavioral analysis technique by describing the kinematics and kinetics of strain-matched young adult, middle-aged, and geriatric rats.
Sphingosine 1-phosphate receptors (S1PRs) are G protein-coupled receptors expressed by many cell types, including immune and neural cells. These receptors are promising targets for immunomodulatory and possibly neuromodulatory therapies. Fingolimod (FTY720) is a sphingosine analog that, when phosphorylated, becomes a prototypical S1PR modulator. It has recently been approved as the first oral treatment for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis in some countries. Fingolimod has documented effects on lymphocyte egress, selectively retaining lymphocytes within the lymph nodes. In addition, fingolimod can enter the CNS and can act on S1PRs expressed by most neural lineages. In this article, we discuss recent results supporting the concept that S1PR modulators may exert neuroprotective and regenerative actions in the CNS as well as having anti-inflammatory effects.

Mitochondrial dysfunction is a prominent feature of various neurodegenerative diseases as strict regulation of integrated mitochondrial functions is essential for neuronal signaling, plasticity, and transmitter release. Many lines of evidence suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Several PD-associated genes interface with mitochondrial dynamics regulating the structure and function of the mitochondrial network. Mitochondrial dysfunction can induce neuron death through a plethora of mechanisms. Both mitochondrial dysfunction and neuroinflammation, a common denominator of PD, lead to an increased production of reactive oxygen species, which are detrimental to neurons. The transcription factor nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2, NFE2L2) is an emerging target to counteract mitochondrial dysfunction and its consequences in PD. Nrf2 activates the antioxidant response element (ARE) pathway, including a battery of cytoprotective genes such as antioxidants and anti-inflammatory genes and several transcription factors involved in mitochondrial biogenesis. Here, the current knowledge about the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in PD, Nrf2/ARE stress-response mechanisms, and the evidence for specific links between this pathway and PD are summarized. The neuroprotection of nigral dopaminergic neurons by the activation of Nrf2 through several inducers in PD is also emphasized as a promising therapeutic approach.



Cystic fibrosis is caused by impaired ion transport due to mutated cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, accompanied by elevated activity of the amiloride-sensitive epithelial Na(+) channel (ENaC). Here we show that knockout of the ubiquitin ligase Nedd4L (Nedd4-2) specifically in lung epithelia (surfactant protein C-expressing type II and Clara cells) causes cystic fibrosis-like lung disease, with airway mucus obstruction, goblet cell hyperplasia, massive inflammation, fibrosis, and death by three weeks of age. These effects of Nedd4L loss are likely caused by enhanced ENaC function, as reflected by increased ENaC protein levels, increased lung dryness at birth, amiloride-sensitive dehydration of lung explants, and elevated ENaC currents in primary alveolar type II cells analyzed by patch clamp recordings. Moreover, the lung defects were rescued with administration of amiloride into the lungs of young knockout pups via nasal instillation. Our results therefore suggest that the ubiquitin ligase Nedd4L can suppress the onset of cystic fibrosis symptoms by inhibiting ENaC in lung epithelia.
There is great interest in the evolution of economic behavior. In typical studies, species are asked to play one of a series of economic games, derived from game theory, and their responses are compared. The advantage of this approach is the relative level of consistency and control that emerges from the games themselves; however, in the typical experiment, procedures and conditions differ widely, particularly between humans and other species. Thus, in the current study, we investigated how three primate species, capuchin monkeys, chimpanzees, and humans, played the Assurance (or Stag Hunt) game using procedures that were, to the best of our ability, the same across species, particularly with respect to training and pretesting. Our goal was to determine what, if any, differences existed in the ways in which these species made decisions in this game. We hypothesized differences along phylogenetic lines, which we found. However, the species were more similar than might be expected. In particular, humans who played using &quot;nonhuman primate-friendly&quot; rules did not behave as is typical. Thus, we find evidence for similarity in decision-making processes across the order Primates. These results indicate that such comparative studies are possible and, moreover, that in any comparison rating species' relative abilities, extreme care must be taken in ensuring that one species does not have an advantage over the others due to methodological procedures.
Transneuronal transport of neurotropic viruses is widely used to define the organization of neural circuitry in the mature and developing nervous system. However, interconnectivity within complex circuits limits the ability of viral tracing to define connections specifically linked to a subpopulation of neurons within a network. Here we demonstrate a unique viral tracing technology that highlights connections to defined populations of neurons within a larger labeled network. This technology was accomplished by constructing a replication-competent strain of pseudorabies virus (PRV-263) that changes the profile of fluorescent reporter expression in the presence of Cre recombinase (Cre). The viral genome carries a Brainbow cassette that expresses a default red reporter in infected cells. However, in the presence of Cre, the red reporter gene is excised from the genome and expression of yellow or cyan reporters is enabled. We used PRV-263 in combination with a unique lentivirus vector that produces Cre expression in catecholamine neurons. Projection-specific infection of central circuits containing these Cre-expressing catecholamine neurons with PRV-263 resulted in Cre-mediated recombination of the PRV-263 genome and conditional expression of cyan/yellow reporters. Replication and transneuronal transport of recombined virus produced conditional reporter expression in neurons synaptically linked to the Cre-expressing catecholamine neurons. This unique technology highlights connections specific to phenotypically defined neurons within larger networks infected by retrograde transneuronal transport of virus from a defined projection target. The availability of other technologies that restrict Cre expression to defined populations of neurons indicates that this approach can be widely applied across functionally defined systems.


Understanding the molecular basis of Parkinson's disease (PD) has proven to be a major challenge in the field of neurodegenerative diseases. Although several hypotheses have been proposed to explain the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of PD, a growing body of evidence has highlighted the role of mitochondrial dysfunction and the disruption of the mechanisms of mitochondrial dynamics in PD and other parkinsonian disorders. In this paper, we comment on the recent advances in how changes in the mitochondrial function and mitochondrial dynamics (fusion/fission, transport, and clearance) contribute to neurodegeneration, specifically focusing on PD. We also evaluate the current controversies in those issues and discuss the role of fusion/fission dynamics in the mitochondrial lifecycle and maintenance. We propose that cellular demise and neurodegeneration in PD are due to the interplay between mitochondrial dysfunction, mitochondrial trafficking disruption, and impaired autophagic clearance.
Thermosensation is an indispensable sensory modality. Here, we study temperature coding in Drosophila, and show that temperature is represented by a spatial map of activity in the brain. First, we identify TRP channels that function in the fly antenna to mediate the detection of cold stimuli. Next, we identify the hot-sensing neurons and show that hot and cold antennal receptors project onto distinct, but adjacent glomeruli in the Proximal-Antennal-Protocerebrum (PAP) forming a thermotopic map in the brain. We use two-photon imaging to reveal the functional segregation of hot and cold responses in the PAP, and show that silencing the hot- or cold-sensing neurons produces animals with distinct and discrete deficits in their behavioral responses to thermal stimuli. Together, these results demonstrate that dedicated populations of cells orchestrate behavioral responses to different temperature stimuli, and reveal a labeled-line logic for the coding of temperature information in the brain.
Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) synthesizes the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine, at cholinergic nerve terminals. ChAT contains nuclear localization signals and is also localized in the nuclei of neural and non-neuronal cells. Nuclear ChAT might have an as yet unidentified function, such as transcriptional regulation. In this study, we investigated the alteration of candidate gene transcription by ChAT. We chose high affinity choline transporter (CHT1) and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VACHT) as candidate genes, which function together with ChAT in acetylcholine production. Using SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells stably expressing wild-type human ChAT, we found that overexpressed ChAT enhanced transcription of the CHT1 gene but not the VACHT gene. In contrast, nuclear localization signal disrupted, and catalytically inactive mutant ChATs could not induce, CHT1 expression. Additionally, ChAT did not alter CHT1 expression in non-neuronal HEK293 cells. Our results suggest that ChAT activates the transcription of selected target genes in neuronal cells. Both enzymatic activity and nuclear translocation of ChAT are required for its transcriptional enhancement.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) regulate many mammalian physiologic and pathophysiologic processes. These proteins bind with the kinase receptors BMPR-I and BMPR-II, thereby activating Smad transcription factor. In this study, we demonstrate that neogenin, a receptor for netrins and proteins of the repulsive guidance molecule family, is a receptor for BMPs and modulates Smad signal transduction. Neogenin was found to bind directly with BMP-2, BMP-4, BMP-6, and BMP-7. Knockdown of neogenin in C2C12 cells resulted in the enhancement of the BMP-2-induced processes of osteoblastic differentiation and phosphorylation of Smad1, Smad5, and Smad8. Conversely, overexpression of neogenin in C2C12 cells suppressed these processes. Our results also indicated that BMP-induced activation of RhoA was mediated by neogenin. Inhibition of RhoA promoted BMP-2-induced processes of osteoblastic differentiation and phosphorylation of Smad1/5/8. However, treatment with Y-27632, an inhibitor of Rho-associated protein kinase, did not modulate BMP-induced phosphorylation of Smad1/5/8. Taken together, our findings suggest that neogenin negatively regulates the functions of BMP and that this effect of neogenin is mediated by the activation of RhoA.
Explaining or predicting the behaviour of our conspecifics requires the ability to infer the intentions that motivate it. Such inferences are assumed to rely on two types of information: (1) the sensory information conveyed by movement kinematics and (2) the observer's prior expectations--acquired from past experience or derived from prior knowledge. However, the respective contribution of these two sources of information is still controversial. This controversy stems in part from the fact that &quot;intention&quot; is an umbrella term that may embrace various sub-types each being assigned different scopes and targets. We hypothesized that variations in the scope and target of intentions may account for variations in the contribution of visual kinematics and prior knowledge to the intention inference process. To test this hypothesis, we conducted four behavioural experiments in which participants were instructed to identify different types of intention: basic intentions (i.e. simple goal of a motor act), superordinate intentions (i.e. general goal of a sequence of motor acts), or social intentions (i.e. intentions accomplished in a context of reciprocal interaction). For each of the above-mentioned intentions, we varied (1) the amount of visual information available from the action scene and (2) participant's prior expectations concerning the intention that was more likely to be accomplished. First, we showed that intentional judgments depend on a consistent interaction between visual information and participant's prior expectations. Moreover, we demonstrated that this interaction varied according to the type of intention to be inferred, with participant's priors rather than perceptual evidence exerting a greater effect on the inference of social and superordinate intentions. The results are discussed by appealing to the specific properties of each type of intention considered and further interpreted in the light of a hierarchical model of action representation.




The biochemical activity of a stunning diversity of cell types and organ systems is shaped by a 24-hour (circadian) clock. This rhythmic drive to a good deal of the transcriptome (up to 15% of all coding genes) imparts circadian modulation over a wide range of physiological and behavioral processes (from cell division to cognition). Further, dysregulation of the clock has been implicated in the pathogenesis of a large and diverse array of disorders, such as hypertension, cancer and depression. Indeed, the possibility of utilizing therapeutic approaches that target clock physiology (that is, chronotherapy) has gained broad interest. However, a deeper understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms that modulate the clock, and give rise to organ-specific clock transcriptomes, will be required to fully realize the power of chronotherapies. Recently, microRNAs have emerged as significant players in circadian clock timing, thus raising the possibility that clock-controlled microRNAs could contribute to disorders of the human circadian timing system. Here, we highlight recent work revealing a key role for microRNAs in clock physiology, and discuss potential approaches to unlocking their utility as effectors of circadian physiology and pathophysiology.
We tested the hypothesis that conceptual similarity promotes generalization of conditioned fear. Using a sensory preconditioning procedure, three groups of subjects learned an association between two cues that were conceptually similar, unrelated, or mismatched. Next, one of the cues was paired with a shock. The other cue was then reintroduced to test for fear generalization, as measured by the skin conductance response. Results showed enhanced fear generalization that correlated with trait anxiety levels in the group that learned an association between conceptually similar stimuli. These findings suggest that conceptual representations of conditional stimuli influence human fear learning processes.
MKR mice, lacking insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) signaling in skeletal muscle, are lean yet hyperlipidemic, hyperinsulinemic, and hyperglycemic, with severe insulin resistance and elevated hepatic and skeletal muscle levels of triglycerides. We have previously shown that chronic peripheral administration of the adipokine leptin improves hepatic insulin sensitivity in these mice independently of its effects on food intake. As central leptin signaling has been implicated in the control of peripheral glucose homeostasis, here we examined the ability of central intracerebroventricular leptin administration to affect energy balance and peripheral glucose homeostasis in non-obese diabetic male MKR mice. Central leptin significantly reduced food intake, body weight gain and adiposity, as well as serum glucose, insulin, leptin, free fatty acid and triglyceride levels relative to ACSF treated controls. These reductions were accompanied by increased fat oxidation as measured by indirect calorimetry, as well as increased oxygen consumption. Central leptin also improved glucose tolerance and hepatic insulin sensitivity determined using the euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamps relative to pair fed vehicle treated controls, as well as increasing the rate of glucose disappearance. Hepatic vagotomy only partially reversed the ability of central leptin to improve glucose tolerance. These results demonstrate that central leptin dramatically improves insulin sensitivity independently of its effects on food intake, in a lean mouse model of type 2 diabetes. The findings also suggest that: 1) both hepatic vagal and non-vagal pathways contribute to this improvement, and 2) central leptin alters glucose disposal in skeletal muscle in this model.

The novel antiepileptic drug, (R)-N-benzyl 2-acetamido-3-methoxypropionamide ((R)-lacosamide, Vimpat() ((R)-1)), was recently approved in the US and Europe for adjuvant treatment of partial-onset seizures in adults. (R)-1 preferentially enhances slow inactivation of voltage-gated Na(+) currents, a pharmacological process relevant in the hyperexcitable neuron. We have advanced a strategy to identify lacosamide binding partners by attaching affinity bait (AB) and chemical reporter (CR) groups to (R)-1 to aid receptor detection and isolation. We showed that select lacosamide AB and AB&amp;CR derivatives exhibited excellent activities similar to (R)-1 in the maximal electroshock seizure model in rodents. Here, we examined the effect of these lacosamide AB and AB&amp;CR derivatives and compared them with (R)-1 on Na(+) channel function in CNS catecholaminergic (CAD) cells. Using whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology, we demonstrated that the test compounds do not affect the Na(+) channel fast inactivation process, that they were far better modulators of slow inactivation than (R)-1, and that modulation of the slow inactivation process was stereospecific. The lacosamide AB agents that contained either an electrophilic isothiocyanate ((R)-5) or a photolabile azide ((R)-8) unit upon AB activation gave modest levels of permanent Na(+) channel slow inactivation, providing initial evidence that these compounds may have covalently reacted with their cognate receptor(s). Our findings support the further use of these agents to delineate the (R)-1-mediated Na(+) channel slow inactivation process.
Tariquidar was developed as a specific inhibitor of the efflux transporter ABCB1. Recent positron emission tomographic brain imaging studies using [(11)C]tariquidar to measure ABCB1 (P-gp, P-glycoprotein) density in mice indicate that the inhibitor may not be as specific as previously thought. We examined its selectivity as an inhibitor and a substrate for the human transporters P-gp, breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP, ABCG2), and multidrug resistance protein 1 (MRP1, ABCC1). Our results show that at low concentrations, tariquidar acts selectively as an inhibitor of P-gp and also as a substrate of BCRP. At much higher concentrations (100 nM), tariquidar acts as an inhibitor of both P-gp and BCRP. Thus, the in vivo specificity of tariquidar depends on concentration and the relative density and capacity of P-gp vs BCRP.

The nonviral vector based gene delivery approach is attractive due to advantages associated with molecular-level modifications suitable for optimization of vector properties. In a new class of nonviral gene delivery systems, we herein report the potential of poly(ether imine) (PETIM) dendrimers to mediate an effective gene delivery function. PETIM dendrimer, constituted with tertiary amine branch points, n-propyl ether linkers and primary amines at their peripheries, exhibits significantly reduced toxicities, over a broad concentration range. The dendrimer complexes pDNA effectively, protects DNA from endosomal damages, and delivers to the cell nucleus. Gene transfection studies, utilizing a reporter plasmid pEGFP-C1 and upon complexation with dendrimer, showed a robust expression of the encoded protein. The study shows that PETIM dendrimers are hitherto unknown novel gene delivery vectors, combining features of poly(ethylene imine)-based polymers and dendrimers, yet are relatively nontoxic and structurally precise.
Lipid mixing between vesicles functionalized with SNAREs and the cytosolic C2AB domain of synaptotagmin-1 recapitulates the basic Ca(2+) dependence of neuronal exocytosis. However, in the conventional ensemble lipid mixing assays it is not possible to discriminate whether Ca(2+) accelerates the docking or the fusion of vesicles. Here we report a fluorescence microscopy-based assay to monitor SNARE-mediated docking and fusion of individual vesicle pairs. In situ measurement of the concentration of diffusing particles allowed us to quantify docking rates by a maximum-likelihood approach. This analysis showed that C2AB and Ca(2+) accelerate vesicle-vesicle docking with more than two orders of magnitude. Comparison of the measured docking rates with ensemble lipid mixing kinetics, however, suggests that in most cases bilayer fusion remains the rate-limiting step. Our single vesicle results show that only 60% of the vesicles dock and only 6% of docked vesicles fuse. Lipid mixing on single vesicles was fast (t(mix) &lt; 1 s) while an ensemble assay revealed two slow mixing processes with t(mix)  1 min and t(mix)  20 min. The presence of several distinct docking and fusion pathways cannot be rationalized at this stage but may be related to intrasample heterogeneities, presumably in the form of lipid and/or protein composition.



Zonula occludens (ZO)-1 is a multi-domain scaffold protein known to have critical roles in the establishment of cell-cell adhesions and the maintenance of stable tissue structures through the targeting, anchoring, and clustering of transmembrane adhesion molecules and cytoskeletal proteins. Here, we report that ZO-1 directly binds to MRCK, a Cdc42 effector kinase that modulates cell protrusion and migration, at the leading edge of migrating cells. Structural studies reveal that the binding of a  hairpin from GRINL1A converts ZO-1 ZU5 into a complete ZU5-fold. A similar interaction mode is likely to occur between ZO-1 ZU5 and MRCK. The interaction between ZO-1 and MRCK requires the kinase to be primed by Cdc42 due to the closed conformation of the kinase. Formation of the ZO-1/MRCK complex enriches the kinase at the lamellae of migrating cells. Disruption of the ZO-1/MRCK complex inhibits MRCK-mediated cell migration. These results demonstrate that ZO-1, a classical scaffold protein with accepted roles in maintaining cell-cell adhesions in stable tissues, also has an active role in cell migration during processes such as tissue development and remodelling.
Subcortical-cortical interactions in the language network were investigated using dynamic causal modeling of magnetoencephalographic data recorded during auditory comprehension. Participants heard sentences that either were correct or contained violations. Sentences containing violations had syntactic or prosodic violations or both. We show that a hidden source, modeling magnetically silent deep nuclei, is required to explain the data best. This is in line with recent brain imaging studies and intracranial recordings suggesting an involvement of subcortical structures in language processing. Here, the processing of syntactic and prosodic violations elicited a global increase in the amplitude of evoked responses, both at the cortical and subcortical levels. As estimated by Bayesian model averaging, this was accompanied by various changes in cortical-cortical and subcortical-cortical connectivity. The most consistent findings in relation to violations were a decrease of reentrant inputs to Heschl's gyrus (HG) and of transcallosal lateral connections. These results suggest that in conditions where one hemisphere detects a violation, possibly via fast thalamocortical (HG) loops, the intercallosal connectivity is reduced to allow independent processing of syntax (left hemisphere) and of prosody (right hemisphere). This study is the first demonstration in cognitive neuroscience that subcortical-cortical loops can be empirically investigated using noninvasive electrophysiological recordings.
Recent theoretical models of hippocampal function suggest that the hippocampus plays a critical role in the memory for the overlapping sequences of events that comprise episodic memory. Consistent with this idea, the firing of hippocampal &quot;place cells&quot; have been shown to represent not only location, but also the context or episode in which the location occurs. Thus, hippocampal neurons fire differently in the same location depending on the particular journey or sequence of places in which the subject is traveling. Further, recent work in rats has shown that hippocampal lesions impair memory for sequences of odors and the ability to disambiguate overlapping sequences of odors. We therefore recorded the activity of hippocampal complex-spike cells during a disambiguation of odor sequences task in which the two sequences shared three common odors. Consistent with data from spatial memory tasks, we found that 26 of 44 complex-spike cells fired differentially in the periods before, or during the presentation of the ambiguous odors depending on the sequence in which the odors were presented. This finding further supports the idea that the hippocampus is critical for episodic memory, and extends the physiological evidence to suggest that the hippocampal neurons play a broader role representing sequences of both spatial and nonspatial information.
Many learned behaviors are thought to require the activity of high-level neurons that represent categories of complex signals, such as familiar faces or native speech sounds. How these complex, experience-dependent neural responses emerge within the brain's circuitry is not well understood. The caudomedial mesopallium (CMM), a secondary auditory region in the songbird brain, contains neurons that respond to specific combinations of song components and respond preferentially to the songs that birds have learned to recognize. Here, we examine the transformation of these learned responses across a broader forebrain circuit that includes the caudolateral mesopallium (CLM), an auditory region that provides input to CMM. We recorded extracellular single-unit activity in CLM and CMM in European starlings trained to recognize sets of conspecific songs and compared multiple encoding properties of neurons between these regions. We find that the responses of CMM neurons are more selective between song components, convey more information about song components, and are more variable over repeated components than the responses of CLM neurons. While learning enhances neural encoding of song components in both regions, CMM neurons encode more information about the learned categories associated with songs than do CLM neurons. Collectively, these data suggest that CLM and CMM are part of a functional sensory hierarchy that is modified by learning to yield representations of natural vocal signals that are increasingly informative with respect to behavior.
The hypothesis for directional selectivity of frequency modulations (FMs) invokes a mechanism with an honored tradition in sensory neurobiology, the relative timing of excitation and inhibition. The proposal is that the timing disparity is created by asymmetrical locations of excitatory tuning and inhibitory sidebands. Thus, cells in which the inhibitory sidebands are tuned to frequencies lower than the excitatory tuning are selective for downward sweeping FMs, because frequencies first generate excitation followed by inhibition. Upward sweeping FMs, in contrast, first evoke inhibition that either leads or is coincident with the excitation and prevents discharges. Here we evaluated FM directional selectivity with in vivo whole-cell recordings from the inferior colliculus of awake bats. From the whole-cell recordings, we derived synaptic conductance waveforms evoked by downward and upward FMs. We then tested the effects of shifting inhibition relative to excitation in a model and found that latency shifts had only minor effects on EPSP amplitudes that were often &lt;1.0 mV/ms shift. However, when the PSPs peaked close to spike threshold, even small changes in latency could cause some cells to fire more strongly to a particular FM direction and thus change its directional selectivity. Furthermore, the effect of shifting inhibition depended strongly on initial latency differences and the shapes of the conductance waveforms. We conclude that &quot;timing&quot; is more than latency differences between excitation and inhibition, and response selectivity depends on a complex interaction between the timing, the shapes, and magnitudes of the excitatory and inhibitory conductances and spike threshold.
The ventral intraparietal area (VIP) of the macaque monkey brain is a multimodal area with visual, vestibular, somatosensory, and eye movement-related responses. The visual responses are strongly directional, and VIP neurons respond well to complex optic flow patterns similar to those found during self-motion. To test the hypothesis that visual responses in VIP directly contribute to the perception of self-motion direction, we used electrical microstimulation to perturb activity in VIP while animals performed a two-alternative heading discrimination task. Microstimulation systematically biased monkeys' choices in a direction consistent with neuronal preferences at the stimulation site, and these effects were larger while the animal was making smooth pursuit eye movements. From these results, we conclude that VIP is causally involved in the perception of self-motion from visual cues and that this involvement is gated by ongoing motor behavior.
Multipotent progenitors in the vertebrate retina often generate clonally related mixtures of excitatory and inhibitory neurons. The postmitotically expressed transcription factor, Ptf1a, is essential for all inhibitory fates in the zebrafish retina, including three types of horizontal and 28 types of amacrine cell. Here, we show that specific types of inhibitory neurons arise from the cell-autonomous influence of Ptf1a in the daughters of fate-restricted progenitors, such as Ath5 or Vsx1/2-expressing progenitors, and that in the absence of Ptf1a, cells that would have become these specific inhibitory subtypes revert to the histogenetically appropriate excitatory subtypes of the same lineage. Altered proportions of amacrine subtypes respecified by the misexpression of Ptf1a in the Ath5 lineage suggest that Ath5-expressing progenitors are biased, favoring the generation of some subtypes more than others. Yet the full array of inhibitory cell subtypes in Ath5 mutants implies the existence of Ath5-independent factors involved in inhibitory cell specification. We also show that an extrinsic negative feedback on the expression of Ptf1a provides a control mechanism by which the number of any and all types of inhibitory cells in the retina can be regulated in this lineage-dependent way.
Humans are able to categorize complex natural scenes very rapidly and effortlessly, which has led to an assumption that such ultra-rapid categorization is driven by feedforward activation of ventral brain areas. However, recent accounts of visual perception stress the role of recurrent interactions that start rapidly after the activation of V1. To study whether or not recurrent processes play a causal role in categorization, we applied fMRI-guided transcranial magnetic stimulation on early visual cortex (V1/V2) and lateral occipital cortex (LO) while the participants categorized natural images as containing animals or not. The results showed that V1/V2 contributed to categorization speed and to subjective perception during a long activity period before and after the contribution of LO had started. This pattern of results suggests that recurrent interactions in visual cortex between areas along the ventral stream and striate cortex play a causal role in categorization and perception of natural scenes.
The red-eared turtle is an important animal model for investigating the neural activity in the spinal circuit that generates motor behavior. However, basic anatomical features, including the number of neurons in the spinal segments involved, are unknown. In the present study, we estimate the total number of neurons in segment D9 of the spinal cord in the red-eared turtle (Trachemys scripta elegans) using stereological cell counting methods. In transverse spinal cord sections stained with modified Giemsa, motoneurons (MNs), interneurons (INs), and non-neuronal cells were distinguished according to location and morphology. Each cell type was then counted separately using an optical disector with the cell nucleus as counting item. The number of cells in segment D9 was as follows (mean  SE): MNs, 2049  74; INs, 16,135  316; non-neuronal cells, 47,504  478 (n = 6). These results provide the first estimate of the total number of neurons in a spinal segment in a terrestrial vertebrate based on unbiased stereological methods and an upper bound on the number of neurons involved in segmental sensorimotor activity. These findings also form a crucial quantitative foundation for integrating electrophysiological data into mathematical circuit models.
Radial glial (RG) cells, in the neocortical ventricular/subventricular zone (VZ/SVZ), generate cortical projection neurons both in rodents and humans, but whether they can also generate cortical interneurons is not clear. We demonstrated both on cryosections and in cell cultures that in the human VZ/SVZ, cells can be double labeled with RG markers and calretinin (CalR) and GABA, markers that suggest interneuronal lineage. We examined in more detail the cell fate of human RG cells isolated from the VZ/SVZ at midterm. After 24 h, no CalR(+) or GABA(+) cells were seen in cultures, whereas 5-10% cells expressed Nkx2.1 and Dlx, two ventral transcription factors. CalR(+) and GABA(+) cells were apparent for the first time after 3 d in vitro, and their number increased in subsequent days, consistent with the gradual transition of RG cells into CalR(+) or GABA(+) cells. Indeed, the progeny of genetically labeled RG cells could be immunolabeled with antibodies to CalR and GABA or ventral transcription factors (Nkx2.1(+), Dlx(+)). In contrast to humans, in the embryonic mouse, similar experiments showed that only RG cells isolated from the subpallium (ganglionic eminence) generate CalR(+) or GABA(+) cells, whereas this was not the case with RG cells isolated from the pallium. These findings support the idea that human, but not mouse, dorsal RG cells have the potential to generate various subtypes of neocortical interneurons. Multiple progenitors and sites of cortical interneuron origin in human might be an evolutionary adaptation underlying brain expansion and the increased complexity of cortical circuitry in humans.
Our knowledge about the developing human cerebral cortex is based on the analysis of fixed postmortem material. Here we use electrical recordings from unfixed human postmortem tissue to characterize the synaptic physiology and spontaneous network activity of pioneer cortical neurons (&quot;subplate neurons&quot;). Our electrophysiological experiments show that functional glutamate or GABA ionotropic receptors are expressed on human subplate (SP) neurons as early as 20 gestational weeks. Extracellular (synaptic) stimulations evoked postsynaptic potentials in a very small fraction of SP neurons, suggesting that functional synaptic contacts are rare at midgestation. Although synaptic inputs were scarce, we regularly observed spontaneous (unprovoked) electrical activity among human SP neurons, comprised of sustained plateau depolarizations and bursts of action potential firing, which resembled cortical UP and DOWN states in the adult neocortex. Plateau depolarizations and bursts of action potential firing are thought to depend on the mature morphology and physiology of adult cortical network. However, our current data reveal that similar cortical rhythm is generated by a very immature ensemble of human fetal neurons. In the relative absence of sensory inputs, as in development in utero, or in slow-wave sleep (i.e., throughout the entire lifespan), the spontaneous slow oscillatory pattern (UP and DOWN states) is a fundamental aspect of human cortical physiology.
Sensorimotor activity has been shown to play a key role in functional outcome after extensive brain damage. This study was aimed at assessing the influence of sensorimotor experience through subject-environment interactions on the time course of both lesion and gliosis volumes as well as on the recovery of forelimb sensorimotor abilities following focal cortical injury. The lesion consisted of a cortical compression targeting the forepaw representational area within the primary somatosensory cortex of adult rats. After the cortical lesion, rats were randomly subjected to various postlesion conditions: unilateral C5-C6 dorsal root transection depriving the contralateral cortex from forepaw somatosensory inputs, standard housing or an enriched environment promoting sensorimotor experience and social interactions. Behavioral tests were used to assess forelimb placement during locomotion, forelimb-use asymmetry, and forepaw tactile sensitivity. For each group, the time course of tissue loss was described and the gliosis volume over the first postoperative month was evaluated using an unbiased stereological method. Consistent with previous studies, recovery of behavioral abilities was found to depend on post-injury experience. Indeed, increased sensorimotor activity initiated early in an enriched environment induced a rapid and more complete behavioral recovery compared with standard housing. In contrast, severe deprivation of peripheral sensory inputs led to a delayed and only partial sensorimotor recovery. The dorsal rhizotomy was found to increase the perilesional gliosis in comparison to standard or enriched environments. These findings provide further evidence that early sensory experience has a beneficial influence on the onset and time course of functional recovery after focal brain injury.
The high and sometimes inappropriate use of antibiotics has accelerated the development of antibiotic resistance, creating a major challenge for the sustainable treatment of infections world-wide. Bacterial communities often respond to antibiotic selection pressure by acquiring resistance genes, i.e. mobile genetic elements that can be shared horizontally between species. Environmental microbial communities maintain diverse collections of resistance genes, which can be mobilized into pathogenic bacteria. Recently, exceptional environmental releases of antibiotics have been documented, but the effects on the promotion of resistance genes and the potential for horizontal gene transfer have yet received limited attention. In this study, we have used culture-independent shotgun metagenomics to investigate microbial communities in river sediments exposed to waste water from the production of antibiotics in India. Our analysis identified very high levels of several classes of resistance genes as well as elements for horizontal gene transfer, including integrons, transposons and plasmids. In addition, two abundant previously uncharacterized resistance plasmids were identified. The results suggest that antibiotic contamination plays a role in the promotion of resistance genes and their mobilization from environmental microbes to other species and eventually to human pathogens. The entire life-cycle of antibiotic substances, both before, under and after usage, should therefore be considered to fully evaluate their role in the promotion of resistance.
Tripartite (three-part) synapses are defined by physical and functional interactions of glia with pre- and post-synaptic elements. Although tripartite synapses are thought to be of widespread importance in neurological health and disease, we are only beginning to develop an understanding of glial contributions to synaptic function. In contrast to studies of neuronal mechanisms, a significant limitation has been the lack of an invertebrate genetic model system in which conserved mechanisms of tripartite synapse function may be examined through large-scale application of forward genetics and genome-wide genetic tools. Here we report a Drosophila tripartite synapse model which exhibits morphological and functional properties similar to those of mammalian synapses, including glial regulation of extracellular glutamate, synaptically-induced glial calcium transients and glial coupling of synapses with tracheal structures mediating gas exchange. In combination with classical and cell-type specific genetic approaches in Drosophila, this model is expected to provide new insights into the molecular and cellular mechanisms of tripartite synapse function.

The diagnosis of functional paresis is evoked when a patient presents with symptoms and signs incompatible with current anatomical and physiological knowledge. A broad assessment, including imaging and motor evoked potentials at rest, remains necessary; the rate of false diagnosis being estimated at 4%. The mechanisms of hysteria remain still dubious but various studies suggest that functional paresis is different from simulation by conscious, voluntary inhibition. The long-term prognosis is bad. The treatment includes cognitive-behavioral therapy and rehabilitation to develop a positive attitude.
Evidence from behavioral and self-reported data suggests that the patients' beliefs and expectations can shape both therapeutic and adverse effects of any given drug. We investigated how divergent expectancies alter the analgesic efficacy of a potent opioid in healthy volunteers by using brain imaging. The effect of a fixed concentration of the -opioid agonist remifentanil on constant heat pain was assessed under three experimental conditions using a within-subject design: with no expectation of analgesia, with expectancy of a positive analgesic effect, and with negative expectancy of analgesia (that is, expectation of hyperalgesia or exacerbation of pain). We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to record brain activity to corroborate the effects of expectations on the analgesic efficacy of the opioid and to elucidate the underlying neural mechanisms. Positive treatment expectancy substantially enhanced (doubled) the analgesic benefit of remifentanil. In contrast, negative treatment expectancy abolished remifentanil analgesia. These subjective effects were substantiated by significant changes in the neural activity in brain regions involved with the coding of pain intensity. The positive expectancy effects were associated with activity in the endogenous pain modulatory system, and the negative expectancy effects with activity in the hippocampus. On the basis of subjective and objective evidence, we contend that an individual's expectation of a drug's effect critically influences its therapeutic efficacy and that regulatory brain mechanisms differ as a function of expectancy. We propose that it may be necessary to integrate patients' beliefs and expectations into drug treatment regimes alongside traditional considerations in order to optimize treatment outcomes.



Treated sewage effluents contain complex mixtures of micropollutants, raising concerns about effects on aquatic organisms. The addition of advanced treatment steps has therefore been suggested. However, some of these could potentially produce effluents affecting exposed organisms by unknown modes of action. Here, (1)H NMR (proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy) metabolomics of fish blood plasma was used to explore potential responses not identified by more targeted (chemical or biological) assays. Rainbow trout was exposed in parallel to six differently treated effluents (e.g., conventional activated sludge, addition of sand filter, further addition of ozonation and/or a moving bed biofilm reactor or a separate membrane bioreactor line). Multivariate data analysis showed changes in the metabolome (HDL, LDL, VLDL and glycerol-containing lipids, cholesterol, glucose, phosphatidylcholine, glutamine, and alanine) between treatment groups. This formed the basis for postulating a hypothesis on how exposure to effluent treated by certain processes, including ozonation, would affect the metabolic profiles of exposed fish. The hypothesis withstood testing in an independent study the following year. To conclude, (1)H NMR metabolomics proved suitable for identifying physiological responses not identified by more targeted assays used in parallel studies. Whether these changes are linked to adverse effects remains to be tested.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by expanded polyglutamine repeats in the huntingtin (Htt) protein. Mutant Htt may damage and kill striatal neurons by a mechanism involving reduced production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and increased oxidative and metabolic stress. Because electroconvulsive shock (ECS) can stimulate the production of BDNF and protect neurons against stress, we determined whether ECS treatment would modify the disease process and provide a therapeutic benefit in a mouse model of HD. ECS (50 mA for 0.2 s) or sham treatment was administered once weekly to male N171-82Q Htt mutant mice beginning at 2 months of age. Endpoints measured included motor function, striatal and cortical pathology, and levels of protein chaperones and BDNF. ECS treatment delayed the onset of motor symptoms and body weight loss and extended the survival of HD mice. Striatal neurodegeneration was attenuated and levels of protein chaperones (Hsp70 and Hsp40) and BDNF were elevated in striatal neurons of ECS-treated compared with sham-treated HD mice. Our findings demonstrate that ECS can increase the resistance of neurons to mutant Htt resulting in improved functional outcome and extended survival. The potential of ECS as an intervention in subjects that inherit the mutant Htt gene merits further consideration.
Integrins are cell-adhesion receptors that mediate cell-extracellular-matrix (ECM) and cell-cell interactions by recognizing specific ligands. Recent studies have shown that the formation of isoaspartyl residues (isoAsp) in integrin ligands by asparagine deamidation or aspartate isomerization could represent a mechanism for the regulation of integrin-ligand recognition. This spontaneous post-translational modification, which might occur in aged proteins of the ECM, changes the length of the peptide bond and, in the case of asparagine, also of the charge. Although these changes typically have negative effects on protein function, recent studies suggested that isoAsp formation at certain Asn-Gly-Arg (NGR) sites in ECM proteins have a gain-of-function effect, because the resulting isoAsp-Gly-Arg (isoDGR) sequence can mimic Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD), a well-known integrin-binding motif. Substantial experimental evidence suggests that the NGR-to-isoDGR transition can occur in vitro in natural proteins and in drugs containing this motif, thereby promoting integrin recognition and cell adhesion. In this Commentary, we review these studies and discuss the potential effects that isoAsp formation at NGR, DGR and RGD sites might have in the recognition of integrins by natural ligands and by drugs that contain these motifs, as well as their potential biological and pharmacological implications.
The objective of the present study was to analyze serum protein complexes and detect serum esterase activities using nongradient blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE). For analysis of potential protein complexes, serum from rat was used. Results demonstrate that a total of 8 gel bands could be clearly distinguished after Coomassie blue staining, and serum albumin could be isolated nearly as a pure protein. Moreover, proteins in these bands were identified by electrospray mass spectrometry and low-energy collision induced dissociation (CID)-MS/MS peptide sequencing and the existence of serum dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH) was confirmed. For studies of in-gel detection of esterase activities, serum from rat, mouse, and human was used. In-gel staining of esterase activity was achieved by the use of either -naphthylacetate or -naphthylacetate in the presence of Fast blue BB salt. There were three bands exhibiting esterase activities in the serum of both rat and mouse. In contrast, there was only one band showing esterase activity staining in the human serum. When serum samples were treated with varying concentrations of urea, esterase activity staining was abolished for all the bands except the one containing esterase 1 (Es1) protein that is known to be a single polypeptide enzyme, indicating that majority of these esterases were protein complexes or multimeric proteins. We also identified the human serum esterase as butyrylcholinesterase following isolation and partial purification using ammonium sulfate fractioning and ion exchange column chromatographies. Where applicable, demonstrations of the gel-based method for measuring serum esterase activities under physiological or pathophysiological conditions were illustrated. Results of the present study demonstrate that nongradient BN-PAGE can serve as a feasible analytical tool for proteomic and enzymatic analysis of serum proteins.
NMR spectroscopy has been used to study and characterize the interactions in solution between -CD and alkyl-,-bis(dodecyldimethyl ammonium bromide) gemini surfactants with the following head-group spacer lengths: 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10. The application of the method of continuous variation gives as a result that 1:1 and 2:1 (-cyclodextrin-gemini) complexes are formed; the association stoichiometry is dependent on the spacer chain length, varying from 1.5 (for s=2) to 1.8 (for s=10). Assuming a two-step mechanism, the binding constants have been computed. In general, the overall binding constant slightly increases with an increase of the number of methylene groups in the spacer. The (1)H NMR spectra of the N-(CH(3))(2) groups in -cyclodextrin/gemini mixed solutions are split into two peaks for 12-10-12, suggesting that the gemini spacer can thread the -cyclodextrin so that the latter is positioned between the gemini head-groups. Inspection of the ROESY spectra allowed the establishment of several spatial proximities between the protons from the -CD and the gemini and for a spacer length of 10, the data indeed indicate that complexes are formed with the CD molecule positioned between the two charged head groups with the spacer passing through the CD molecule.
CD40L (CD154) is regulated at the posttranscriptional level by an activation-induced process that results in a highly stable transcript at extended times of T cell activation. Transcript stability is mediated by polypyrimidine tract-binding protein (PTB)-containing complexes (complex I and II) that bind to three adjacent CU-rich sequences within the 3' untranslated region. To assess the role of PTB in the expression and distribution of CD40L mRNA, PTB was targeted using short hairpin RNA in both primary T cells and a T cell line that recapitulates the stability phase of regulated CD40L mRNA decay. PTB knockdown resulted in a marked decrease in the mRNA stability that resulted in lowered CD40L surface expression. PTB was also critical for appropriate distribution of CD40L mRNA between the nucleus and cytoplasm and in the cytoplasm between the cytosol and the translating polysomes. The activation-induced formation of PTB-specific ribonucleoprotein complexes was observed only with cytoplasmic and not nuclear PTB indicating functional differences in the protein defined by cellular localization. Finally, we observed that cytoplasmic and nuclear PTB isoforms were differentially modified relative to each other and that the changes in cytoplasmic PTB were consistent with activation-induced phosphorylation. Together this work suggests that differentially modified PTB regulates CD40L expression at multiple steps by 1) retaining CD40L mRNA in the nucleus, 2) directly regulating mRNA stability at late times of activation, and 3) forming a ribonuclear complex that preferentially associates with translating ribosomes thus leading to an enhanced level of CD40L protein.
Bortezomib, an inhibitor of proteasomes, has been reported to reduce autoantibody titers and to improve clinical condition in mice suffering from lupus-like disease. Bortezomib depletes both short- and long-lived plasma cells; the latter normally survive the standard immunosuppressant treatments targeting T and B cells. These findings encouraged us to test whether bortezomib is effective for alleviating the symptoms in the experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) model for myasthenia gravis, a disease that is characterized by autoantibodies against the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) of skeletal muscle. Lewis rats were immunized with saline (control, n = 36) or Torpedo AChR (EAMG, n = 54) in CFA in the first week of an experimental period of 8 wk. After immunization, rats received twice a week s.c. injections of bortezomib (0.2 mg/kg in saline) or saline injections. Bortezomib induced apoptosis in bone marrow cells and reduced the amount of plasma cells in the bone marrow by up to 81%. In the EAMG animals, bortezomib efficiently reduced the rise of anti-AChR autoantibody titers, prevented ultrastructural damage of the postsynaptic membrane, improved neuromuscular transmission, and decreased myasthenic symptoms. This study thus underscores the potential of the therapeutic use of proteasome inhibitors to target plasma cells in Ab-mediated autoimmune diseases.


Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS) is a rare systemic vasculitis, almost invariably accompanied by asthma, nasal polyposis, paranasal sinus abnormalities, and increased peripheral blood eosinophil count. Neurological involvement as peripheral neuropathy is a common feature, whereas cerebral involvement is extremely rare. Herein, we report the case of a young man who presented with sudden onset of right-side emiparesis and aphasia, whose head CT scan showed the presence of large haemorrhage in the left striatum nucleus involving part of the temporal lobe. Based on clinical and laboratory findings (asthma, eosinophilia &gt;10%, paranasal sinus abnormalities and mononeuritis multiplex) a diagnosis of CSS was made. Cerebral angiography resulted normal, excluding the presence of vascular malformations or signs of vessel abnormalities. Pharmacotherapy with (intravenous and afterwards oral) corticosteroid and immunosuppressors (cyclophosphamide and then azathioprine) was initiated. The outcome was good with neurological follow-up showing a nearly complete recover. Our case points out that intracerebral haemorrhage can be, despite rare, a presenting feature of CSS. Previously reported patients affected by cerebral haemorrhage and CSS are summarized and briefly reviewed.
Most animal experiments in neurosciences require anesthesia of the experimental animal. For fMRI experiments most neuroscientist would prefer (I) a recoverable anesthesia that would (II) allow strong BOLD responses which are (III) reproducibly obtained for the same animal in repetitive experiments. Strong BOLD responses are particularly needed if weak physiological stimuli like whisker deflection are used. A-chloralose, in contrast to isoflurane, fulfils the need for strong activation but has been traditionally considered as a terminal drug due to its negative physiological side effects. Here it is demonstrated, that new commercial -chloralose in a careful application scheme allows for repeated fMRI studies on the same animal with similar responses after whisker stimulation. Only minor effects on the normal behavior were observed between drugs. These include a longer time to return to baseline values of food ingestion and slower tail reaction for the -chloralose experiments.


The microdrive is one of the most essential tools for extracellular, single-unit recordings in freely behaving animals to detect and isolate the single-unit activities from brain regions of interest. Due to the increasing number of neuroscience research projects using genetically engineered mice, the demand for effective recording devices in freely moving mice is also increasing. Although manually and automatically operated microdrive devices are available, they are limited in terms of size, weight, accuracy, manipulability, and convenience for single-unit recording in mice. The present study proposed a novel microdrive that employs a small, lightweight piezo-motor and a magnetoresistive (MR) sensor with a closed-loop position feedback control system. The total weight of the device is 1.82 g, which is perfectly suitable for application to mice. Most importantly, the proposed microdrive is capable of monitoring and adjusting electrode movement on-line by integrating a closed-loop feedback control system, which enhances the accuracy of micro-advancement of the electrode by utilizing position feedback. The performance of this newly developed microdrive was extensively evaluated for both mechanical and physiological concerns at both free-loading and various-loading conditions, including agarose gel matrix and then the hippocampus and thalamus of mice. In summary, this proposed microdrive can enhance the quality of recording single unit activities in freely moving mice in terms of the size and weight of the device, the convenience and accuracy of manipulation, and, most of all, in isolating single neurons and recording stability by providing accurate positioning of an electrode.
While L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels have long been considered the predominant source of calcium for myogenic constriction, recent studies of both cerebral and systemic circulations have provided evidence for the prominent expression of other members of the voltage-dependent calcium channel family, in particular the low voltage activated T-type channels. Although physiological studies have not supported the involvement of a classical low voltage activated, T-type channel in vascular function, evidence is accumulating that points to the involvement of a non-L-type, high voltage activated channel with sensitivity to T-type channel antagonists. We propose that this may arise due to expression of a T-type channel splice variant with unique biophysical characteristics resulting in a more depolarised profile. Expression of these channels in smooth muscle cells would broaden the voltage range over which sustained calcium influx occurs, while expression of T-type channels in endothelial cells could provide a feedback mechanism to prevent excessive vasoconstriction. Perturbation of this balance during pathophysiological conditions by upregulation of channel expression and endothelial dysfunction could contribute to vasospastic conditions and therapy-refractory hypertension.
A fundamental concern of the brain is to establish the spatial relationship between self and the world to allow purposeful action. Response adaptation to unvarying sensory stimuli is a common feature of neural processing, both peripherally and centrally. For the semicircular canals, peripheral adaptation of the canal-cupula system to constant angular-velocity stimuli dominates the picture and masks central adaptation. Here we ask whether galvanic vestibular stimulation circumvents peripheral adaptation and, if so, does it reveal central adaptive processes. Transmastoidal bipolar galvanic stimulation and platform rotation (20 deg s1) were applied separately and held constant for 2 min while perceived rotation was measured by verbal report. During real rotation, the perception of turn decayed from the onset of constant velocity with a mean time constant of 15.8 s. During galvanic-evoked virtual rotation, the perception of rotation initially rose but then declined towards zero over a period of 100 s. For both stimuli, oppositely directed perceptions of similar amplitude were reported when stimulation ceased indicating signal adaptation at some level. From these data the time constants of three independent processes were estimated: (i) the peripheral canal-cupula adaptation with time constant 7.3 s, (ii) the central velocity-storage' process that extends the afferent signal with time constant 7.7 s, and (iii) a long-term adaptation with time constant 75.9 s. The first two agree with previous data based on constant-velocity stimuli. The third component decayed with the profile of a real constant angular acceleration stimulus, showing that the galvanic stimulus signal bypasses the peripheral transformation so that the brainstem sees the galvanic signal as angular acceleration. An adaptive process involving both peripheral and central processes is indicated. Signals evoked by most natural movements will decay peripherally before adaptation can exert an appreciable effect, making a specific vestibular behavioural role unlikely. This adaptation appears to be a general property of the internal coding of self-motion that receives information from multiple sensory sources and filters out the unvarying components regardless of their origin. In this instance of a pure vestibular sensation, it defines the afferent signal that represents the stationary or zero-rotation state.
A central circadian (~24 hr) clock coordinating daily rhythms in physiology and behavior resides in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) located in the anterior hypothalamus. The clock is directly synchronized by light via the retina and optic nerve. Circadian oscillations are generated by interacting negative feedback loops of a number of so called &quot;clock genes&quot; and their protein products, including the Period (Per) genes. The core clock is also dependent on membrane depolarization, calcium and cAMP. The SCN shows daily oscillations in clock gene expression, metabolic activity and spontaneous electrical activity. Remarkably, this endogenous cyclic activity persists in adult tissue slices of the SCN. In this way, the biological clock can easily be studied in vitro, allowing molecular, electrophysiological and metabolic investigations of the pacemaker function. The SCN is a small, well-defined bilateral structure located right above the optic chiasm. In the rat it contains ~8.000 neurons in each nucleus and has dimensions of approximately 947 m (length, rostrocaudal axis) x 424 m (width) x 390 m (height). To dissect out the SCN it is necessary to cut a brain slice at the specific level of the brain where the SCN can be identified. Here, we describe the dissecting and slicing procedure of the SCN, which is similar for mouse and rat brains. Further, we show how to culture the dissected tissue organotypically on a membrane, a technique developed for SCN tissue culture by Yamazaki et al. Finally, we demonstrate how transgenic tissue can be used for measuring expression of clock genes/proteins using dynamic luciferase reporter technology, a method that originally was used for circadian measurements by Geusz et al. We here use SCN tissues from the transgenic knock-in PERIOD2::LUCIFERASE mice produced by Yoo et al. The mice contain a fusion protein of PERIOD (PER) 2 and the firefly enzyme LUCIFERASE. When PER2 is translated in the presence of the substrate for luciferase, i.e. luciferin, the PER2 expression can be monitored as bioluminescence when luciferase catalyzes the oxidation of luciferin. The number of emitted photons positively correlates to the amount of produced PER2 protein, and the bioluminescence rhythms match the PER2 protein rhythm in vivo. In this way the cyclic variation in PER2 expression can be continuously monitored real time during many days. The protocol we follow for tissue culturing and real-time bioluminescence recording has been thoroughly described by Yamazaki and Takahashi.
Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is a fundamental cellular process conserved from yeast to mammals and is an important endocytic route for the internalization of many specific cargos, including activated growth factor receptors. Here we examined changes in tyrosine phosphorylation, a representative output of growth factor receptor signaling, in cells in which endocytic clathrin-coated pits are frozen at a deeply invaginated state, that is, cells that lack dynamin (fibroblasts from dynamin 1, dynamin 2 double conditional knockout mice). The major change observed in these cells relative to wild-type cells was an increase in the phosphorylation state, and thus activation, of activated Cdc42-associated kinase (Ack), a nonreceptor tyrosine kinase. Ack is concentrated at clathrin-coated pits, and binds clathrin heavy chain via two clathrin boxes. RNA interference-based approaches and pharmacological manipulations further demonstrated that the phosphorylation of Ack requires both clathrin assembly into endocytic clathrin-coated pits and active Cdc42. These findings reveal a link between progression of clathrin-coated pits to endocytic vesicles and an activation-deactivation cycle of Ack.




Few finance theories consider the influence of &quot;skewness&quot; (or large and asymmetric but unlikely outcomes) on financial choice. We investigated the impact of skewed gambles on subjects' neural activity, self-reported affective responses, and subsequent preferences using functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI). Neurally, skewed gambles elicited more anterior insula activation than symmetric gambles equated for expected value and variance, and positively skewed gambles also specifically elicited more nucleus accumbens (NAcc) activation than negatively skewed gambles. Affectively, positively skewed gambles elicited more positive arousal and negatively skewed gambles elicited more negative arousal than symmetric gambles equated for expected value and variance. Subjects also preferred positively skewed gambles more, but negatively skewed gambles less than symmetric gambles of equal expected value. Individual differences in both NAcc activity and positive arousal predicted preferences for positively skewed gambles. These findings support an anticipatory affect account in which statistical properties of gambles--including skewness--can influence neural activity, affective responses, and ultimately, choice.
Repeated cocaine exposure induces persistent alterations in genome-wide transcriptional regulatory networks, chromatin remodeling activity and, ultimately, gene expression profiles in the brain's reward circuitry. Virtually all previous investigations have centered on drug-mediated effects occurring throughout active euchromatic regions of the genome, with very little known concerning the impact of cocaine exposure on the regulation and maintenance of heterochromatin in adult brain. Here, we report that cocaine dramatically and dynamically alters heterochromatic histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation (H3K9me3) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region. Furthermore, we demonstrate that repeated cocaine exposure causes persistent decreases in heterochromatization in this brain region, suggesting a potential role for heterochromatic regulation in the long-term actions of cocaine. To identify precise genomic loci affected by these alterations, chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by massively parallel DNA sequencing (ChIP-Seq) was performed on NAc. ChIP-Seq analyses confirmed the existence of the H3K9me3 mark mainly within intergenic regions of the genome and identified specific patterns of cocaine-induced H3K9me3 regulation at repetitive genomic sequences. Cocaine-mediated decreases in H3K9me3 enrichment at specific genomic repeats [e.g., long interspersed nuclear element (LINE)-1 repeats] were further confirmed by the increased expression of LINE-1 retrotransposon-associated repetitive elements in NAc. Such increases likely reflect global patterns of genomic destabilization in this brain region after repeated cocaine administration and open the door for future investigations into the epigenetic and genetic basis of drug addiction.

The corticospinal (CS) tract is involved in controlling discrete voluntary skilled movements in mammals. The CS tract arises exclusively from layer (L) 5 projection neurons of the cerebral cortex, and its formation requires L5 activity of Fezf2 (Fezl, Zfp312). How this L5-specific pattern of Fezf2 expression and CS axonal connectivity is established with such remarkable fidelity had remained elusive. Here we show that the transcription factor TBR1 directly binds the Fezf2 locus and represses its activity in L6 corticothalamic projection neurons to restrict the origin of the CS tract to L5. In Tbr1 null mutants, CS axons ectopically originate from L6 neurons in a Fezf2-dependent manner. Consistently, misexpression of Tbr1 in L5 CS neurons suppresses Fezf2 expression and effectively abolishes the CS tract. Taken together, our findings show that TBR1 is a direct transcriptional repressor of Fezf2 and a negative regulator of CS tract formation that restricts the laminar origin of CS axons specifically to L5.
Microbial colonization of mammals is an evolution-driven process that modulate host physiology, many of which are associated with immunity and nutrient intake. Here, we report that colonization by gut microbiota impacts mammalian brain development and subsequent adult behavior. Using measures of motor activity and anxiety-like behavior, we demonstrate that germ free (GF) mice display increased motor activity and reduced anxiety, compared with specific pathogen free (SPF) mice with a normal gut microbiota. This behavioral phenotype is associated with altered expression of genes known to be involved in second messenger pathways and synaptic long-term potentiation in brain regions implicated in motor control and anxiety-like behavior. GF mice exposed to gut microbiota early in life display similar characteristics as SPF mice, including reduced expression of PSD-95 and synaptophysin in the striatum. Hence, our results suggest that the microbial colonization process initiates signaling mechanisms that affect neuronal circuits involved in motor control and anxiety behavior.
To assess the cortical contribution to breathing, low-intensity transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was delivered over the motor cortex in 10 subjects during: (i) voluntary static inspiratory efforts, (ii) hypocapnic voluntary ventilation (end-tidal CO(2), 2.70.4% meanSD), and (iii) hypercapnic involuntary ventilation (end-tidal CO(2), 6.00.7%). Electromyographic activity (EMG) was recorded from the scalene muscles (obligatory inspiratory muscles) and was significantly suppressed by TMS at short latency (17.21.7ms). The scalene EMG was reduced to 768% and 767% in voluntary breathing and the static inspiratory effort, respectively, but only to 9110% during the involuntary ventilation, significantly less than during the two voluntary tasks (p&lt;0.005). Thus, with differences in chemical drive to breathe, TMS shows differences in the cortical contribution to inspiratory activity in scalene muscles. Voluntary breathing showed larger suppression than involuntary breathing, when the suppression was marginal. The results strongly suggest that drive from fast-conducting corticospinal neurones contributes to inspiratory activity in scalenes during voluntary breathing but is not required during involuntary breathing.


Conditional transgenic mouse models are important tools for investigations of neurodegenerative diseases and evaluation of potential therapeutic interventions. A popular conditional transgenic system is the binary tetracycline-responsive gene (Tet-Off) system, in which the expression of the gene of interest depends on a tetracycline-regulatable transactivator (tTA) under the control of a specific promoter construct. The most frequently used Tet-Off promoter mouse lines are the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CamKII) and prion protein (PrP) promoter lines, respectively. To target the regulated gene of interest to relevant brain regions, a priori knowledge about the spatial distribution of the regulated gene expression in the brain is important. Such distribution patterns can be investigated using double transgenic mice in which the promoter construct regulates a LacZ reporter gene encoding the marker -galactosidase which can be histologically detected using its substrate X-gal. We have previously published an atlas showing the brain-wide expression mediated by the Tet-Off PrP promoter mouse line, but the distribution of activity in the Tet-Off CamKII promoter mouse line is less well known. To compare promoter activity distributions in these two Tet-Off mouse lines, we have developed an online digital atlas tailored for side-by-side comparison of histological section images. The atlas provides a comprehensive list of brain regions containing X-gal labeling and an interactive dual image viewer tool for panning and zooming of corresponding section images. Comparison of spatial expression patterns between the two lines show considerable regional and cellular differences, relevant in context of generation and analysis of inducible models based on these two tetracycline responsive promoter mouse lines.
In the social neuroscience of face processing, multiple roles are attributed to amygdala: signalling of fear/threat-stimuli, of emotional expression, and general salience. The current study aimed at a direct comparison of amygdala activation attributable to these conditions by contrasting amygdala responses to matched emotional (threatening and non-threatening) and of non-emotional salient faces in a visual search paradigm using cartoon faces. Participants (21 healthy volunteers) had to detect a target face (angry, happy, blue, red, differing in the exact same features) in an array of closely matched non-target faces. Behavioural results revealed a pop-out effect for all targets compared to non-targets, indicating that they were all salient, independently of being emotional or non-emotional. While significant amygdala activation was obtained for all trials with salient faces (compared to those containing only non-target faces), no significant differences in activation emerged between emotional threatening, emotional non-threatening, and non-emotional targets. Moreover, right and left amygdala activation for target trials was found correlated to the behavioural measure of target detection. These findings provide evidence for a general role of the amygdala in signalling salience in a visual search independent of modality. Given the critical involvement of the amygdala in several neuropsychiatric disorders, the current findings may contribute to further our understanding on dysfunctional neural circuits in these disorders.
There is growing evidence that cognitive and motor functions are interrelated and may rely on the development of the same cortical and subcortical neural structures. However, no study to date has examined the relationships between brain volume, cognitive ability, and motor ability in typically developing children. The NIH MRI Study of Normal Brain Development consists of a large, longitudinal database of structural MRI and performance measures from a battery of neuropsychological assessments from typically developing children. This dataset provides a unique opportunity to examine relationships between the brain and cognitive-motor abilities. A secondary analysis was conducted on data from 172 children between the ages of 6 to 13 years with up to 2 measurement occasions (initial testing and 2-year follow-up). Linear mixed effects modeling was employed to account for age and gender effects on the development of specific cortical and subcortical volumes as well as behavioral performance measures of interest. Above and beyond the effects of age and gender, significant relationships were found between general cognitive ability (IQ) and the volume of subcortical brain structures (cerebellum and caudate) as well as spatial working memory and the putamen. In addition, IQ was found to be related to global and frontal gray matter volume as well as parietal gray and white matter. At the behavioral level, general cognitive ability was also found to be related to visuomotor ability (pegboard) and executive function (spatial working memory). These results support the notion that cognition and motor skills may be fundamentally interrelated at both the levels of behavior and brain structure.
Advanced magnetic resonance (MR) neuroimaging analysis techniques based on voxel-wise statistics, such as voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and functional MRI, are widely applied to cognitive brain research in both human subjects and in non-human primates. Recent developments in imaging have enabled the evaluation of smaller animal models with sufficient spatial resolution. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate species, has been widely used in neuroscience research, to which voxel-wise statistics could be extended with a species-specific brain template. Here, we report, for the first time, a tissue-segmented, population-averaged standard template of the common marmoset brain. This template was created by using anatomical T(1)-weighted images from 22 adult marmosets with a high-resolution isotropic voxel size of (0.2 mm)(3) at 7-Tesla and DARTEL algorithm in SPM8. Whole brain templates are available at International Neuroinformatics Japan Node website, http://brainatlas.brain.riken.jp/marmoset/.
The brain's energy economy excessively favors intrinsic, spontaneous neural activity over extrinsic, evoked activity, presumably to maintain its internal organization. Emerging hypotheses capable of explaining such an investment posit that the brain's intrinsic functional architecture encodes a blueprint for its repertoire of responses to the external world. Yet, there is little evidence directly linking intrinsic and extrinsic activity in the brain. Here we relate differences among individuals in the magnitude of task-evoked activity during performance of an Eriksen flanker task, to spontaneous oscillatory phenomena observed during rest. Specifically, we focused on the amplitude of low-frequency oscillations (LFO, 0.01-0.1 Hz) present in the BOLD signal. LFO amplitude measures obtained during rest successfully predicted the magnitude of task-evoked activity in a variety of regions that were all activated during performance of the flanker task. In these regions, higher LFO amplitude at rest predicted higher task-evoked activity. LFO amplitude measures obtained during rest were also found to have robust predictive value for behavior. In midline cingulate regions, LFO amplitudes predicted not only the speed and consistency of performance but also the magnitude of the behavioral congruency effect embedded in the flanker task. These results support the emerging hypothesis that the brain's repertoire of responses to the external world are represented and updated in the brain's intrinsic functional architecture.
Fronto-cerebellar connections are thought to be involved in higher-order cognitive functioning. It is suspected that damage to this network may contribute to cognitive deficits in chronic alcoholics. However, it remains to be elucidated if fronto-cerebellar circuitry is altered in high-risk individuals even prior to alcohol use onset. The current study used functional connectivity MRI (fcMRI) to examine fronto-cerebellar circuitry in 13 alcohol-nave, at-risk youth with a family history of alcoholism (FH+) and 14 age-matched controls. In addition, we examined how white matter microstructure, as evidenced by fractional anisotropy (FA), related to fcMRI. FH+youth showed significantly reduced functional connectivity between bilateral anterior prefrontal cortices and contralateral cerebellar seed regions compared to controls. We found that this reduction in connectivity significantly correlated with reduced FA in the anterior limb of the internal capsule and the superior longitudinal fasciculus. Taken together, our findings reflect associated aberrant functional and structural connectivity in substance-nave FH+adolescents, perhaps suggesting an identifiable neurophenotypic precursor to substance use. Given the role of frontal and cerebellar brain regions in subserving executive functioning, the presence of premorbid abnormalities in fronto-cerebellar circuitry may heighten the risk for developing an alcohol use disorder in FH+youth through atypical control processing.
Probabilistic atlases are widely used in the neuroscience community as a tool for providing a standard space for comparison of subjects and as tissue priors used to enhance the intensity-based classification of brain MRI. Most efforts so far have focused on static brain atlases either for adult or pediatric cohorts. In contrast to the adult brain the rapid growth of the neonatal brain requires an age-specific spatial probabilistic atlas to provide suitable anatomical and structural information. In this paper we describe a 4D probabilistic atlas that allows dynamic generation of prior tissue probability maps for any chosen stage of neonatal brain development between 29 and 44 gestational weeks. The atlas is created from the segmentations of 142 neonatal subjects at different ages using a kernel-based regression method and provides prior tissue probability maps for six structures - cortex, white matter, subcortical grey matter, brainstem, cerebellum and cerebro-spinal fluid. The atlas is publicly available at www.brain-development.org.
Consistent functional brain abnormalities in Parkinson's disease (PD) are difficult to pinpoint because differences from the normal state are often subtle. In this regard, the application of multivariate methods of analysis has been successful but not devoid of misinterpretation and controversy. The Scaled Subprofile Model (SSM), a principal components analysis (PCA)-based spatial covariance method, has yielded critical information regarding the characteristic abnormalities of functional brain organization that underlie PD and other neurodegenerative disorders. However, the relevance of disease-related spatial covariance patterns (metabolic brain networks) and the most effective methods for their derivation has been a subject of debate. We address these issues here and discuss the inherent advantages of proper application as well as the effects of the misapplication of this methodology. We show that ratio pre-normalization using the mean global metabolic rate (GMR) or regional values from a &quot;reference&quot; brain region (e.g. cerebellum) that may be required in univariate analytical approaches is obviated in SSM. We discuss deviations of the methodology that may yield erroneous or confounding factors.
Within days of each other, Pfizer, Merck, and GlaxoSmithKline announced that they will focus on a few therapeutic areas only and abandon others entirely. Pfizer alone will close well over a hundred drug development projects that have reached two-thirds of the way to launch. The programs are deemed to be too risky and not lucrative enough for Big Pharma in the current climate. Society has a real need for the drugs that are no longer going to be developed for, among others, drug-resistant epilepsy, neuropathic and cancer pain, type-2 diabetes, obesity, and schizophrenia. The authors propose a radical response by the U.S. government and the National Institutes of Health to rescue these abandoned projects, and to continue selected programs for drug approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency. The investment required is small compared to the Troubled Asset Relief Program bank bail out, but the return on investment in financial terms and in satisfying societal needs makes this proposal attractive.
From an ultimate perspective, the age of onset of female reproduction should be sensitive to variation in mortality rates, and variation in the productivity of non-reproductive activities. In accordance with this prediction, most of the cross-national variation in women's age at first birth can be explained by differences in female life expectancies and incomes. The within-country variation in England shows a similar pattern: women have children younger in neighbourhoods where the expectation of healthy life is shorter and incomes are lower. I consider the proximate mechanisms likely to be involved in producing locally appropriate reproductive decisions. There is evidence suggesting that developmental induction, social learning and contextual evocation may all play a role.
Treatment of diabetes-impaired wound healing remains a major unresolved medical challenge. Here, we identified suppressed formation of a novel reparative lipid mediator 14S,21R-dihydroxydocosa-4Z,7Z,10Z,12E,16Z,19Z-hexaenoic acid (14S,21R-diHDHA) in cutaneous wounds of diabetic db/db mice. These results indicate that diabetes impedes the biosynthetic pathways of 14S,21R-diHDHA in skin wounds. Administration of exogenous 14S,21R-diHDHA to wounds in diabetic animals rescued healing and angiogenesis. When db/db mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were administered together with 14S,21R-diHDHA to wounds in diabetic animals, they coacted to accelerate wound re-epithelialization, granulation tissue formation, and synergistically improved vascularization. In the pivotal cellular processes of angiogenesis, 14S,21R-diHDHA enhanced VEGF release, vasculature formation, and migration of db/db dermal microvascular endothelial cells (DMVECs), as well as remedied paracrine angiogenic functions of db/db MSCs, including VEGF secretion and the promotion of DMVEC migration and vasculature formation. Our results show that 14S,21R-diHDHA activates the p38 MAPK pathway in wounds, db/db MSCs, and DMVECs. Overall, the impeded formation of 14S,21R-diHDHA described in this study suggests that diabetes could affect the generation of pro-healing lipid mediators in wound healing. By restoring wound healing and MSC functions, 14S,21R-diHDHA is a new lead for the development of better therapeutics used in treating wounds of diabetics.
The movement of an object toward or away from the head is perhaps the most critical piece of information an organism can extract from its environment. Such 3D motion produces horizontally opposite motions on the two retinae. Little is known about how or where the visual system combines these two retinal motion signals, relative to the wealth of knowledge about the neural hierarchies involved in 2D motion processing and binocular vision. Canonical conceptions of primate visual processing assert that neurons early in the visual system combine monocular inputs into a single cyclopean stream (lacking eye-of-origin information) and extract 1D (&quot;component&quot;) motions; later stages then extract 2D pattern motion from the cyclopean output of the earlier stage. Here, however, we show that 3D motion perception is in fact affected by the comparison of opposite 2D pattern motions between the two eyes. Three-dimensional motion sensitivity depends systematically on pattern motion direction when dichoptically viewing gratings and plaids-and a novel &quot;dichoptic pseudoplaid&quot; stimulus provides strong support for use of interocular pattern motion differences by precluding potential contributions from conventional disparity-based mechanisms. These results imply the existence of eye-of-origin information in later stages of motion processing and therefore motivate the incorporation of such eye-specific pattern-motion signals in models of motion processing and binocular integration.
Increasingly, patterned cell culture environments are becoming a relevant technique to study cellular characteristics, and many researchers believe in the need for 3D environments to represent in vitro experiments which better mimic in vivo qualities. Studies in fields such as cancer research, neural engineering, cardiac physiology, and cell-matrix interaction have shown cell behavior differs substantially between traditional monolayer cultures and 3D constructs. Hydrogels are used as 3D environments because of their variety, versatility and ability to tailor molecular composition through functionalization. Numerous techniques exist for creation of constructs as cell-supportive matrices, including electrospinning, elastomer stamps, inkjet printing, additive photopatterning, static photomask projection-lithography, and dynamic mask microstereolithography. Unfortunately, these methods involve multiple production steps and/or equipment not readily adaptable to conventional cell and tissue culture methods. The technique employed in this protocol adapts the latter two methods, using a digital micromirror device (DMD) to create dynamic photomasks for crosslinking geometrically specific poly-(ethylene glycol) (PEG) hydrogels, induced through UV initiated free radical polymerization. The resulting &quot;2.5D&quot; structures provide a constrained 3D environment for neural growth. We employ a dual-hydrogel approach, where PEG serves as a cell-restrictive region supplying structure to an otherwise shapeless but cell-permissive self-assembling gel made from either Puramatrix or agarose. The process is a quick simple one step fabrication which is highly reproducible and easily adapted for use with conventional cell culture methods and substrates. Whole tissue explants, such as embryonic dorsal root ganglia (DRG), can be incorporated into the dual hydrogel constructs for experimental assays such as neurite outgrowth. Additionally, dissociated cells can be encapsulated in the photocrosslinkable or self polymerizing hydrogel, or selectively adhered to the permeable support membrane using cell-restrictive photopatterning. Using the DMD, we created hydrogel constructs up to ~1mm thick, but thin film (&lt;200 m) PEG structures were limited by oxygen quenching of the free radical polymerization reaction. We subsequently developed a technique utilizing a layer of oil above the polymerization liquid which allowed thin PEG structure polymerization. In this protocol, we describe the expeditious creation of 3D hydrogel systems for production of microfabricated neural cell and tissue cultures. The dual hydrogel constructs demonstrated herein represent versatile in vitro models that may prove useful for studies in neuroscience involving cell survival, migration, and/or neurite growth and guidance. Moreover, as the protocol can work for many types of hydrogels and cells, the potential applications are both varied and vast.
Suicide is a major contributor to the morbidity and mortality of schizophrenia, accounting for approximately 10% of deaths in these patients. Genetic factors have been reported to modulate the risk for suicide, although the precise mechanism and magnitude of the genetic contribution are unknown. Further, suicide attempters present abnormalities in the serotonergic system. We evaluated whether genetic variants in the serotonin receptors HTR3A (rs897692, rs1150226, rs1176724, rs2276302, rs3737457, rs897687 and rs1176713) and HTR3B (rs3758987, rs10502180, rs11606194, rs17116121, rs1176744, rs17116138, rs2276307, rs3782025 and rs1176761) were susceptibility components for suicidal behavior in 154 Caucasians schizophrenia subjects (20.1% of suicide attempters). In a second step, we compared haplotype and gene-gene interaction approaches because both genes are located in the chromosome 11q23 approximately 28Kbp apart. We did not observe allelic or genotypic associations. Six haplotypes were nominally significant associated with suicide. Gene-gene interaction using Helix Tree software showed two nominally significant interactions reproduced by haplotype association. Likewise, haplotypes composed by the markers included in the best multidimensional reduction three-locus model were nominally significant. Our results suggest that HTR3A and HTR3B polymorphisms may not play a major role in the susceptibility for suicidal behavior in schizophrenia subjects. Moreover, gene-gene interaction and haplotype association may have consistent results for genes located in the same chromosome.
The endocannabinoid system is a potential target for therapeutic intervention of substance abuse. Cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist decreases intravenous methamphetamine self-administration in animal models. This study examined whether the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) is a site of interaction between methamphetamine and the CB1 receptor antagonist AM251. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to lever press and then were surgically implanted with a guide cannula into the right NAcc. Rats were allowed one week to recover and then AM251 (0.1 or 1.0 g/L) was reverse dialyzed directly into the NAcc prior to methamphetamine (10 g/L) intra-accumbens self-administration. AM251 (1.0 g/L) reduced methamphetamine self-administration while AM251 (0.1 g/L) had an intermediary effect. The mechanism of self-administration attenuation is not known but could be mediated by AM251 affecting the negative feedback from the NAcc to the ventral tegmental area (VTA). This study provides evidence that the endocannabinoid system is involved with rewarding effects of methamphetamine and suggests a possible therapeutic intervention for methamphetamine abuse.
The stimulating action of anti-depressant drugs on the number of mitotic cells on the dentate gyrus on the adult rat depends on an intact diurnal rhythm of corticosterone. This suggests that there may be a clock mechanism in the dentate gyrus which is sensitive to corticoids. This paper reports the diurnal expression the 'clock' gene per1 in the dentate gyrus, and how it is altered by clamping the diurnal rhythm in corticosterone. We show that there is a diurnal rhythm in the number of mitotic progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in adult male per1-luciferase rats, approximately 6 h out of phase with the plasma corticosterone rhythm. This is suppressed by clamping the daily corticosterone levels by a subcutaneous implant of corticosterone (100 mg). There was also a daily rhythm of per1 expression in both suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the dentate gyrus, which were in phase with one another. The per1 rhythm in the dentate gyrus, but not the SCN, was suppressed by clamping the plasma corticosterone rhythm. These results are related to the previous finding that clamping the corticosterone rhythm also prevents the stimulating action of fluoxetine and other controlling agents on the mitotic activity of the progenitor cells.
Viewing the body affects somatosensory processing, even when entirely non-informative about stimulation. While several studies have reported effects of viewing the body on cortical processing of touch and pain, the neural locus of this modulation remains unclear. We investigated whether seeing the body modulates processing in primary somatosensory cortex (SI) by measuring short-latency somatosensory evoked-potentials (SEPs) elicited by electrical stimulation of the median nerve while participants looked directly at their stimulated hand or at a non-hand object. Vision of the body produced a clear reduction of the P27 component of the SEP recorded over contralateral parietal channels, which is known to reflect processing in SI. These results provide the first direct evidence that seeing the body modulates processing in SI and demonstrate that vision can affect even the earliest stages of cortical somatosensory processing.
Corticosterone (CORT) release from the adrenal glands in response to acutely stressful stimuli is well-characterized, however several non-experimental, environmental stressors can also engender a CORT response. The aim of this study was to investigate an acute activation of the HPA axis in pair-housed animals in response to separation. We observed a rapid significant increase in CORT in the animal remaining in the home cage following cage mate removal, that was not caused by cage opening and transient removal of cage mate. In addition, we examined this response in both control, non-stressed animals and in animals subjected to chronic variable stress (CVS) and found that although basal levels of CORT differed between control and CVS animals, there was no significant difference in the acute CORT levels between the control and CVS animals after separation, indicating that this environmental event is perceived as acutely stressful in both conditions. Furthermore, we examined the time course of CORT activation and found that CORT levels rapidly rise within minutes of separation peaking at 15 min and returning to baseline by 90 min. The results of this study demonstrate that separation can induce an acute stress response in the remaining cage mate measured by increased CORT and should be considered in molecular, behavioral, and electrophysiological studies.
The unconventional myosin VIIa (MYO7A) is one of the five proteins that form a network of complexes involved in formation of stereocilia. Defects in these proteins cause syndromic deaf-blindness in humans [Usher syndrome I (USH1)]. Many disease-causing mutations occur in myosin tail homology 4-protein 4.1, ezrin, radixin, moesin (MyTH4-FERM) domains in the myosin tail that binds to another USH1 protein, Sans. We report the crystal structure of MYO7A MyTH4-FERM domains in complex with the central domain (CEN) of Sans at 2.8 angstrom resolution. The MyTH4 and FERM domains form an integral structural and functional supramodule binding to two highly conserved segments (CEN1 and 2) of Sans. The MyTH4-FERM/CEN complex structure provides mechanistic explanations for known deafness-causing mutations in MYO7A MyTH4-FERM. The structure will also facilitate mechanistic and functional studies of MyTH4-FERM domains in other myosins.
The identities of the digits of the avian forelimb are disputed. Whereas paleontological findings support the position that the digits correspond to digits one, two, and three, embryological evidence points to digit two, three, and four identities. By using transplantation and cell-labeling experiments, we found that the posteriormost digit in the wing does not correspond to digit four in the hindlimb; its progenitor segregates early from the zone of polarizing activity, placing it in the domain of digit three specification. We suggest that an avian-specific shift uncouples the digit anlagen from the molecular mechanisms that pattern them, resulting in the imposition of digit one, two, and three identities on the second, third, and fourth anlagens.
Understanding the brain requires a broad range of approaches and methods from the domains of biology, psychology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. The fundamental challenge is to decipher the &quot;neural choreography&quot; associated with complex behaviors and functions, including thoughts, memories, actions, and emotions. This demands the acquisition and integration of vast amounts of data of many types, at multiple scales in time and in space. Here we discuss the need for neuroinformatics approaches to accelerate progress, using several illustrative examples. The nascent field of &quot;connectomics&quot; aims to comprehensively describe neuronal connectivity at either a macroscopic level (in long-distance pathways for the entire brain) or a microscopic level (among axons, dendrites, and synapses in a small brain region). The Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF) encompasses all of neuroscience and facilitates the integration of existing knowledge and databases of many types. These examples illustrate the opportunities and challenges of data mining across multiple tiers of neuroscience information and underscore the need for cultural and infrastructure changes if neuroinformatics is to fulfill its potential to advance our understanding of the brain.
Ischaemic insult results in short-term changes in cannabinoid-1 (CB(1)) receptor expression in the brain, but it is not known whether long-term changes occur, which could potentially mean a change in the intrinsic ability of the brain to withstand new ischaemic episodes. In this study, we have investigated the expression and functionality of CB(1) receptors in coronal brain slices obtained from ovariectomised female rats 46days after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). The animals were treated with either 17-oestradiol or placebo pellets 6h after MCAO and thereafter housed either in isolated or enriched environments. [(3)H]CP55,940 autoradiography indicated no significant effect of 17-oestradiol treatment or housing environment upon CB(1) receptor densities. There was, however, a modest but significant decrease in the CB(1) receptor density on the ipsilateral side relative to the contralateral side in the frontal cortex, parietal cortex, CA1-CA3 regions of the hippocampus, thalamus and hypothalamus. CB(1) receptor functionality was assessed by measurement of basal and CP55,940-stimulated [(35)S]GTPS autoradiography. In the frontal cortex, parietal cortex, CA1-CA3 regions of the hippocampus and dentate gyrus, a robust stimulation, blocked by the CB(1) receptor inverse agonist AM251, was seen. There were no significant changes in the response to CP55,940 with respect either to the 17-oestradiol treatment, housing environment or MCAO. Our results reveal that although there are modest long-term decreases in ipsilateral CB(1) receptor densities following MCAO in female rats, these decreases do not result in a functional CB(1) receptor deficit.
Previous work in our laboratory indicated that cholinergic denervation by intraventricular infusion of 192-IgG-saporin on postnatal day 7 (N192S) reduced the number of cells in the dentate gyrus expressing doublecortin, a marker for immature neuroblasts. In addition, there was a suggestion that N192S impaired the neurogenic response to environmental enrichment (EE). The purpose of the present study was to further characterize the impact of N192S on the proliferation, differentiation and survival of newborn cells in the dentate gyrus. After 42 days in EE or standard housing, all rats received injections of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to label dividing cells. They were sacrificed either one day (to assess cell proliferation) or 28 days later (to assess survival and differentiation of BrdU-labelled cells). EE failed to increase neurogenesis, thereby preventing determination of the effects of N192S on EE-induced neurogenesis. However, N192S by itself reduced the number of BrdU(+) cells 1 day after BrdU exposure, but did not alter the number of cells expressing the cell cycle marker Ki-67. The number of BrdU(+) cells 28 days after BrdU exposure was not affected by N192S. Confocal analysis of BrdU(+) cells double-immunofluorescently stained to detect NeuN or S100B indicated that N192S did not alter the proportion of new cells that adopted a neuronal or glial identity. The most plausible explanation for these results is that N192S accelerates the death of newborn cells, but does not change their overall survival rate or phenotypic differentiation.
Recent studies show that in Alzheimer's disease (AD), alterations in neurogenesis contribute to the neurodegenerative process. Neurodegeneration in AD has been associated with aberrant signaling through the cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (CDK5) pathway via its activators p35/p25; however, the role of CDK5 in the mechanisms of defective adult neurogenesis in AD is unknown. First, to study AD-like abnormal activation of CDK5 signaling in an in vitro model of neurogenesis, neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs) were infected with a viral vector expressing p35, and exposed to amyloid- protein (A(1-42)). These conditions resulted in impaired maturation and neurite outgrowth in vitro, and these effects were reversed by pharmacological or genetic inhibition of CDK5. Similarly, neurogenesis was impaired in a transgenic mouse model of AD that expresses high levels of amyloid precursor protein (APP), and this effect was reversed in transgenic mice crossed with a CDK5 heterozygous-deficient mouse line. A similar rescue effect was observed in APP transgenic mice treated with Roscovitine, a pharmacological inhibitor of CDK5. Taken together, these data suggest that the CDK5 signaling pathway has a critical role in maintaining the integrity of NPCs and neuronal maturation in the adult hippocampus. Moreover, potential therapeutic approaches could focus on modulating the aberrant activity of CDK5 to target the neurogenic and neurodegenerative alterations in AD.
The success of gene therapy depends on the efficient delivery of therapeutic genes into target cells in vitro and in vivo. Non-viral vectors, such as cationic liposome-DNA complexes (lipoplexes), have been used for numerous gene delivery applications, although their efficacy is still limited, particularly when compared to that of viral vectors. In this work, we assessed the efficacy of a new gene delivery system generated by non-covalent association of folate to lipoplexes (FA-associated lipoplexes) in two different cancer cell lines (SCC-VII and TSA cells). Association of FA with liposomes composed of DOTAP and cholesterol, and subsequent complexation with DNA greatly increased transfection efficiency above that obtained with plain lipoplexes in both cell lines. The addition of 40g of FA to lipoplexes was optimal for transfection and allowed to overcome the inhibitory effect induced by the presence of serum. Notably, the biological activity of the FA-associated complexes was even significantly improved under these conditions. Transfection activity mediated by FA-associated lipoplexes was compared with that by FA-conjugated lipoplexes, and the results showed that electrostatic association of FA to the lipoplexes led to considerably higher levels of biological activity than that involving covalent coupling of FA. Moreover, FA-associated lipoplexes confer greater DNA protection than FA-conjugated lipoplexes. To our knowledge, this is the first study reporting the characterization and application of FA-associated lipoplexes in gene delivery and showing their greater efficacy than that of FA-conjugated lipoplexes. Overall, the results obtained in the present work constitute a strong indication that the developed FA-associated lipoplexes are promising candidates for in vivo gene delivery.
In the vertebrate retina, establishment of precise synaptic connections among distinct retinal neuron cell types is critical for processing visual information and for accurate visual perception. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), amacrine cells and bipolar cells establish stereotypic neurite arborization patterns to form functional neural circuits in the inner plexiform layer (IPL), a laminar region that is conventionally divided into five major parallel sublaminae. However, the molecular mechanisms governing distinct retinal subtype targeting to specific sublaminae within the IPL remain to be elucidated. Here we show that the transmembrane semaphorin Sema6A signals through its receptor PlexinA4 (PlexA4) to control lamina-specific neuronal stratification in the mouse retina. Expression analyses demonstrate that Sema6A and PlexA4 proteins are expressed in a complementary fashion in the developing retina: Sema6A in most ON sublaminae and PlexA4 in OFF sublaminae of the IPL. Mice with null mutations in PlexA4 or Sema6A exhibit severe defects in stereotypic lamina-specific neurite arborization of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-expressing dopaminergic amacrine cells, intrinsically photosensitive RGCs (ipRGCs) and calbindin-positive cells in the IPL. Sema6A and PlexA4 genetically interact in vivo for the regulation of dopaminergic amacrine cell laminar targeting. Therefore, neuronal targeting to subdivisions of the IPL in the mammalian retina is directed by repulsive transmembrane guidance cues present on neuronal processes.
Investigations of fear conditioning in rodents and humans have illuminated the neural mechanisms underlying cued and contextual fear. A critical question is how personality dimensions such as trait anxiety act through these mechanisms to confer vulnerability to anxiety disorders, and whether humans' ability to overcome acquired fears depends on regulatory skills not characterized in animal models. In a neuroimaging study of fear conditioning in humans, we found evidence for two independent dimensions of neurocognitive function associated with trait vulnerability to anxiety. The first entailed increased amygdala responsivity to phasic fear cues. The second involved impoverished ventral prefrontal cortical (vPFC) recruitment to downregulate both cued and contextual fear prior to omission (extinction) of the aversive unconditioned stimulus. These two dimensions may contribute to symptomatology differences across anxiety disorders; the amygdala mechanism affecting the development of phobic fear and the frontal mechanism influencing the maintenance of both specific fears and generalized anxiety.
Understanding how self-initiated behavior is encoded by neuronal circuits in the human brain remains elusive. We recorded the activity of 1019 neurons while twelve subjects performed self-initiated finger movement. We report progressive neuronal recruitment over 1500 ms before subjects report making the decision to move. We observed progressive increase or decrease in neuronal firing rate, particularly in the supplementary motor area (SMA), as the reported time of decision was approached. A population of 256 SMA neurons is sufficient to predict in single trials the impending decision to move with accuracy greater than 80% already 700 ms prior to subjects' awareness. Furthermore, we predict, with a precision of a few hundred ms, the actual time point of this voluntary decision to move. We implement a computational model whereby volition emerges once a change in internally generated firing rate of neuronal assemblies crosses a threshold.
How are local motion signals integrated to form a global motion percept? We investigate the neural mechanisms of tactile motion integration by presenting tactile gratings and plaids to the fingertips of monkeys, using the tactile analogue of a visual monitor and recording the responses evoked in somatosensory cortical neurons. The perceived directions of the gratings and plaids are measured in parallel psychophysical experiments. We identify a population of somatosensory neurons that exhibit integration properties comparable to those induced by analogous visual stimuli in area MT and find that these neural responses account for the perceived direction of the stimuli across all stimulus conditions tested. The preferred direction of the neurons and the perceived direction of the stimuli can be predicted from the weighted average of the directions of the individual stimulus features, highlighting that the somatosensory system implements a vector average mechanism to compute tactile motion direction that bears striking similarities to its visual counterpart.
Neuronal migration is critical for establishing neocortical cell layers and migration defects can cause neurological and psychiatric diseases. Recent studies show that radially migrating neocortical neurons use glia-dependent and glia-independent modes of migration, but the signaling pathways that control different migration modes and the transitions between them are poorly defined. Here, we show that Dab1, an essential component of the reelin pathway, is required in radially migrating neurons for glia-independent somal translocation, but not for glia-guided locomotion. During migration, Dab1 acts in translocating neurons to stabilize their leading processes in a Rap1-dependent manner. Rap1, in turn, controls cadherin function to regulate somal translocation. Furthermore, cell-autonomous neuronal deficits in somal translocation are sufficient to cause severe neocortical lamination defects. Thus, we define the cellular mechanism of reelin function during radial migration, elucidate the molecular pathway downstream of Dab1 during somal translocation, and establish the importance of glia-independent motility in neocortical development.
Sensorimotor integration is an active domain of speech research and is characterized by two main ideas, that the auditory system is critically involved in speech production and that the motor system is critically involved in speech perception. Despite the complementarity of these ideas, there is little crosstalk between these literatures. We propose an integrative model of the speech-related &quot;dorsal stream&quot; in which sensorimotor interaction primarily supports speech production, in the form of a state feedback control architecture. A critical component of this control system is forward sensory prediction, which affords a natural mechanism for limited motor influence on perception, as recent perceptual research has suggested. Evidence shows that this influence is modulatory but not necessary for speech perception. The neuroanatomy of the proposed circuit is discussed as well as some probable clinical correlates including conduction aphasia, stuttering, and aspects of schizophrenia.
In this issue of Neuron, Fried etal. report electrical recordings from single neurons in several areas of the human medial frontal lobe prior to voluntary movement. These data shed important new light on the neuronal mechanisms of human volition and on the hotly debated relation between consciousness and will.
The idea that complex motor, perceptual, and cognitive behaviors are composed of smaller units, which are somehow brought into a meaningful relation, permeates the biological and life sciences. However, no principled framework defining the constituent elementary processes has been developed to this date. Consequently, functional configurations (or architectures) relating elementary processes and external influences are mostly piecemeal formulations suitable to particular instances only. Here, we develop a general dynamical framework for distinct functional architectures characterized by the time-scale separation of their constituents and evaluate their efficiency. Thereto, we build on the (phase) flow of a system, which prescribes the temporal evolution of its state variables. The phase flow topology allows for the unambiguous classification of qualitatively distinct processes, which we consider to represent the functional units or modes within the dynamical architecture. Using the example of a composite movement we illustrate how different architectures can be characterized by their degree of time scale separation between the internal elements of the architecture (i.e. the functional modes) and external interventions. We reveal a tradeoff of the interactions between internal and external influences, which offers a theoretical justification for the efficient composition of complex processes out of non-trivial elementary processes or functional modes.
The transient visual response of feline dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) cells was studied under control conditions and during the application of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation at 1 Hz (rTMS@1Hz) on the primary visual cortex (V1). The results show that rTMS@1Hz modulates the firing mode of Y cells, inducing an increase in burst spikes and a decrease in tonic firing. On the other hand, rTMS@1Hz modifies the spatiotemporal characteristics of receptive fields of X cells, inducing a delay and a decrease of the peak response, and a change of the surround/center amplitude ratio of RF profiles. These results indicate that V1 controls the activity of the visual thalamus in a different way in the X and Y pathways, and that this feedback control is consistent with functional roles associated with each cell type.
Accumulation of toxic amyloid- (A) in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus is a major pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The neurotrophin receptor p75NTR has been proposed to mediate A-induced neurotoxicity; however, its role in the development of AD remains to be clarified. The p75NTR/ExonIII-/- mice and APPSwe/PS1dE9 mice were crossed to generate transgenic AD mice with deletion of p75NTR gene. In APPSwe/PS1dE9 transgenic mice, p75NTR expression was localized in the basal forebrain neurons and degenerative neurites in neocortex, increased with aging, and further activated by A accumulation. Deletion of the p75NTR gene in APPSwe/PS1dE9 mice reduced soluble A levels in the brain and serum, but increased the accumulation of insoluble A and A plaque formation. There was no change in the levels of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its proteolytic derivatives, or -, -, and -secretase activities, or in levels of BACE1, neprilysin (NEP), and insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) proteins. A production by cortical neurons of APPSwe/PS1dE9 mice was reduced by deletion of p75NTR gene in vitro. Recombinant extracellular domain of p75NTR attenuated the oligomerization and fibrillation of synthetic A(42) peptide in vitro, and reduced local A plaques after hippocampus injection in vivo. In addition, deletion of p75NTR attenuated microgliosis but increased the microhemorrhage profiles in the brain. The deletion of p75NTR did not significantly change the cognitive function of the mice up to the age of 9 months. Our data suggest that p75NTR plays a critical role in regulating A levels by both increasing A production and attenuating its aggregation, and they caution that a therapeutic intervention simply reducing p75NTR may exacerbate AD pathology.
In the mammalian retina, excitatory and inhibitory circuitries enable retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) to signal the occurrence of visual features to higher brain areas. This functionality disappears in certain diseases of retinal degeneration because of the progressive loss of photoreceptors. Recent work in a mouse model of retinal degeneration (rd1) found that, although some intraretinal circuitry is preserved and RGCs maintain characteristic physiological properties, they exhibit increased and aberrant rhythmic activity. Here, extracellular recordings were made to assess the degree of aberrant activity in adult rd1 retinas and to investigate the mechanism underlying such behavior. A multi-transistor array with thousands of densely packed sensors allowed for simultaneous recordings of spiking activity in populations of RGCs and of local field potentials (LFPs). The majority of identified RGCs displayed rhythmic (7-10 Hz) but asynchronous activity. The spiking activity correlated with the LFPs, which reflect an average synchronized excitatory input to the RGCs. LFPs initiated from random positions and propagated across the retina. They disappeared when ionotrophic glutamate receptors or electrical synapses were blocked. They persisted in the presence of other pharmacological blockers, including TTX and inhibitory receptor antagonists. Our results suggest that excitation-transmitted laterally through a network of electrically coupled interneurons-leads to large-scale retinal network oscillations, reflected in the rhythmic spiking of most rd1 RGCs. This result may explain forms of photopsias reported by blind patients, while the mechanism involved should be considered in future treatment strategies targeting the disease of retinitis pigmentosa.
The vesicle protein synaptotagmin I is the Ca(2+) sensor that triggers fast, synchronous release of neurotransmitter. Specifically, Ca(2+) binding by the C(2)B domain of synaptotagmin is required at intact synapses, yet the mechanism whereby Ca(2+) binding results in vesicle fusion remains controversial. Ca(2+)-dependent interactions between synaptotagmin and SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment receptor) complexes and/or anionic membranes are possible effector interactions. However, no effector-interaction mutations to date impact synaptic transmission as severely as mutation of the C(2)B Ca(2+)-binding motif, suggesting that these interactions are facilitatory rather than essential. Here we use Drosophila to show the functional role of a highly conserved, hydrophobic residue located at the tip of each of the two Ca(2+)-binding pockets of synaptotagmin. Mutation of this residue in the C(2)A domain (F286) resulted in a 50% decrease in evoked transmitter release at an intact synapse, again indicative of a facilitatory role. Mutation of this hydrophobic residue in the C(2)B domain (I420), on the other hand, blocked all locomotion, was embryonic lethal even in syt I heterozygotes, and resulted in less evoked transmitter release than that in syt(null) mutants, which is more severe than the phenotype of C(2)B Ca(2+)-binding mutants. Thus, mutation of a single, C(2)B hydrophobic residue required for Ca(2+)-dependent penetration of anionic membranes results in the most severe disruption of synaptotagmin function in vivo to date. Our results provide direct support for the hypothesis that plasma membrane penetration, specifically by the C(2)B domain of synaptotagmin, is the critical effector interaction for coupling Ca(2+) binding with vesicle fusion.
Homeostatic synaptic scaling calibrates neuronal excitability by adjusting synaptic strengths during prolonged changes in synaptic activity. The molecular mechanisms that regulate the trafficking of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) during synaptic scaling are largely unknown. Here, we show that chronic activity blockade reduces PICK1 protein level on a time scale that coincides with the accumulation of surface AMPARs. PICK1 loss of function alters the subunit composition and the abundance of GluA2-containing AMPARs. Due to aberrant trafficking of these receptors, the increase in synaptic strength in response to synaptic inactivity is occluded in neurons generated from PICK1 knock-out mouse. In agreement with electrophysiological recordings, no defect of AMPAR trafficking is observed in PICK1 knock-out neurons in response to elevated neuronal activity. Overall, our data reveal an important role of PICK1 in inactivity-induced synaptic scaling by regulating the subunit composition, abundance, and trafficking of GluA2-containing AMPARs.
The primary olfactory (or piriform) cortex is a trilaminar paleocortex that is thought to construct unified &quot;odor images&quot; from the odor components identified by the olfactory bulb. How the piriform cortex (PC) accomplishes this sophisticated synthetic task, despite its relatively simple architecture, is unknown. Here we used in vitro patch-clamp recordings from acute slices of the anterior PC of mice to identify microcircuits involved in excitatory synaptic processing. Cluster analysis confirmed the presence of two prominent classes of glutamatergic principal cells in the main input layer (layer II) of the PC: semilunar (SL) cells and superficial pyramidal (SP) cells. SL cells received stronger afferent excitatory input from the olfactory bulb, on average, than did SP cells. This was due to the larger mean strength of single-fiber afferents onto SL cells. In contrast, SP cells received stronger associational (intracortical) excitatory inputs, most likely due to their more extensive dendritic trees within the associational layers. Tissue-cut experiments and dual recordings from SL and SP cells in disinhibited slices were consistent with the distinctive patterns of connectivity of these two cell classes. Our findings suggest that the anterior PC employs at least two layers of excitatory synaptic processing: one involving strong afferent inputs onto SL cells, and another involving strong intracortical inputs onto SP cells. This architecture may allow the PC to sequentially process olfactory information within segregated subcircuits.
Detailed measurement of ganglion cell receptive fields often reveals significant deviations from a smooth, Gaussian profile. We studied the effect of these irregularities on the representation of fine spatial information in the retina. We recorded from nearby clusters of ganglion cells, testing their ability to determine the location of small flashed spots, and we compared the results to the prediction of a Gaussian receptive field model derived from reverse correlation. Despite considerable receptive field overlap, almost all ganglion cell pairs signaled nearly independently. For groups of five cells with highly overlapping receptive fields, the measured light-evoked currents encoded 33% more information than predicted by the Gaussian receptive field model. Including measured local irregularities in the receptive field model increased performance to the level observed experimentally. These results suggest that instead of being an unavoidable defect, irregularities may be a positive design feature of population neural codes.
Ischemic brain injury is a major problem associated with stroke. It has been increasingly recognized that acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) contribute significantly to ischemic neuronal damage, but the underlying mechanism has remained elusive. Here, we show that extracellular spermine, one of the endogenous polyamines, exacerbates ischemic neuronal injury through sensitization of ASIC1a channels to extracellular acidosis. Pharmacological blockade of ASIC1a or deletion of the ASIC1 gene greatly reduces the enhancing effect of spermine in ischemic neuronal damage both in cultures of dissociated neurons and in a mouse model of focal ischemia. Mechanistically, spermine profoundly reduces desensitization of ASIC1a by slowing down desensitization in the open state, shifting steady-state desensitization to more acidic pH, and accelerating recovery between repeated periods of acid stimulation. Spermine-mediated potentiation of ASIC1a activity is occluded by PcTX1 (psalmotoxin 1), a specific ASIC1a inhibitor binding to its extracellular domain. Functionally, the enhanced channel activity is accompanied by increased acid-induced neuronal membrane depolarization and cytoplasmic Ca(2+) overload, which may partially explain the exacerbated neuronal damage caused by spermine. More importantly, blocking endogenous spermine synthesis significantly attenuates ischemic brain injury mediated by ASIC1a but not that by NMDA receptors. Thus, extracellular spermine contributes significantly to ischemic neuronal injury through enhancing ASIC1a activity. Our data suggest new neuroprotective strategies for stroke patients via inhibition of polyamine synthesis and subsequent spermine-ASIC interaction.
Macaque anatomy and physiology studies have revealed multiple visual areas in posterior parietal cortex (PPC). While many response properties of PPC neurons have been probed, little is known about PPC's large-scale functional topography-specifically related to visuotopic organization. Using high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging at 3 T with a phase-encoded retinotopic mapping paradigm in the awake macaque, a large-scale visuotopic organization along lateral portions of PPC anterior to area V3a and extending into the lateral intraparietal sulcus (LIP) was found. We identify two new visual field maps anterior to V3a within caudal PPC, referred to as caudal intraparietal-1 (CIP-1) and CIP-2. The polar angle representation in CIP-1 extends from regions near the upper vertical meridian (that is the shared border with V3a and dorsal prelunate) to those within the lower visual field (that is the shared border with CIP-2). The polar angle representation in CIP-2 is a mirror reversal of the CIP-1 representation. CIP-1 and CIP-2 share a representation of central space on the lateral border. Anterior to CIP-2, a third polar angle representation was found within LIP, referred to as visuotopic LIP. The polar angle representation in LIP extends from regions near the upper vertical meridian (that is the shared border with CIP-2) to those near the lower vertical meridian. Representations of central visual space were identified within dorsal portions of LIP with peripheral representations in ventral portions. We also consider the topographic large-scale organization found within macaque PPC relative to that observed in human PPC.
A local field potential (LFP) response can be measured throughout the visual cortex in response to the abrupt appearance of a visual stimulus. Averaging LFP responses to many stimulus presentations isolates transient, phase-locked components of the response that are consistent from trial to trial. However, stimulus responses are also composed of sustained components, which differ in their phase from trial to trial and therefore must be evaluated using other methods, such as computing the power of the response of each trial before averaging. Here, we investigate the basis of phase-locked and non-phase-locked LFP responses in the primary visual cortex of the macaque monkey using a novel variant of current source density (CSD) analysis. We applied a linear array of electrode contacts spanning the thickness of the cortex to measure the LFP and compute band-limited CSD power to identify the laminar sites of persistent current exchange that may be the basis of sustained visual LFP responses. In agreement with previous studies, we found a short-latency phase-locked current sink, thought to correspond to thalamocortical input to layer 4C. In addition, we found a prominent non-phase-locked component of the CSD that persisted as long as the stimulus was physically present. The latter was relatively broadband, lasted throughout the stimulus presentation, and was centered 500 m deeper than the initial current sink. These findings demonstrate a fundamental difference in the neural mechanisms underlying the initial and sustained processing of simple visual stimuli in the V1 microcircuit.
Several lines of evidence suggest a major role of the trigeminovascular system in the pathogenesis of migraine. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we compared brain responses during trigeminal pain processing in migraine patients with those of healthy control subjects. The main finding is that the activity of the spinal trigeminal nuclei in response to nociceptive stimulation showed a cycling behavior over the migraine interval. Although interictal (i.e., outside of attack) migraine patients revealed lower activations in the spinal trigeminal nuclei compared with controls, preictal (i.e., shortly before attack) patients showed activity similar to controls, which demonstrates that the trigeminal activation level increases over the pain-free migraine interval. Remarkably, the distance to the next headache attack was predictable by the height of the signal intensities in the spinal nuclei. Migraine patients scanned during the acute spontaneous migraine attack showed significantly lower signal intensities in the trigeminal nuclei compared with controls, demonstrating activity levels similar to interictal patients. Additionally we found-for the first time using fMRI-that migraineurs showed a significant increase in activation of dorsal parts of the pons, previously coined &quot;migraine generator.&quot; Unlike the dorsal pons activation usually linked to migraine attacks, the gradient-like activity following nociceptive stimulation in the spinal trigeminal neurons likely reflects a raise in susceptibility of the brain to generate the next attack, as these areas increase their activity long before headache starts. This oscillating behavior may be a key player in the generation of migraine headache, whereas attack-specific pons activations are most likely a secondary event.

The ectodomain of olfactory cell adhesion molecule (OCAM/NCAM2/RNCAM) consists of five immunoglobulin (Ig) domains (IgI-V), followed by two fibronectin-type 3 (Fn3) domains (Fn3I-II). A complete structural model of the entire ectodomain of human OCAM has been assembled from crystal structures of six recombinant proteins corresponding to different regions of the ectodomain. The model is the longest experimentally based composite structural model of an entire IgCAM ectodomain. It displays an essentially linear arrangement of IgI-V, followed by bends between IgV and Fn3I and between Fn3I and Fn3II. Proteins containing IgI-IgII domains formed stable homodimers in solution and in crystals. Dimerization could be disrupted invitro by mutations in the dimer interface region. In conjunction with the bent ectodomain conformation, which can position IgI-V parallel with the cell surface, the IgI-IgII dimerization enables OCAM-mediated trans-interactions with an intercellular distance of about 20nm, which is consistent with that observed in synapses.
Previous studies have proposed that the inner retina is affected in myopes. This study aimed to investigate the changes in adaptive circuitry of the inner retina in myopia, using the global flash multifocal electroretinogram (global flash mfERG) with different levels of contrast (luminance modulation). Fifty-four myopes had global flash mfERG recorded with different contrasts. The direct component (DC) and the induced component (IC) of the mfERG response were pooled into six regions for analysis. The response amplitudes and implicit times at different contrasts were also analysed. Results showed that myopes had significant reduction in the paracentral DC amplitude for the 29% and 49% contrasts and in the paracentral IC amplitude at all contrasts measured. The peripheral IC amplitude for the 49% contrast was also reduced. No significant change was found in implicit time for either DC or IC response. Refractive error explained about 14% of the variance in DC and 16% of the variance in IC amplitude respectively; axial length could not account for additional variance in either paracentral DC or IC amplitudes in the hierarchical regression models used. We concluded that the paracentral retinal region in myopes showed signs of impaired retinal adaptation, suggesting a functional loss at the inner retinal layer. In addition, functions attributed to the outer retinal layer showed only small changes due to myopia.
To understand computations in neuronal circuits, a model of a small patch of cortex has been developed that can describe the firing regime in the visual system remarkably well.
Sensory stimulation can systematically bias the perceived passage of time, but why and how this happens is mysterious. In this report, we provide evidence that such biases may ultimately derive from an innate and adaptive use of stochastically evolving dynamic stimuli to help refine estimates derived from internal timekeeping mechanisms. A simplified statistical model based on probabilistic expectations of stimulus change derived from the second-order temporal statistics of the natural environment makes three predictions. First, random noise-like stimuli whose statistics violate natural expectations should induce timing bias. Second, a previously unexplored obverse of this effect is that similar noise stimuli with natural statistics should reduce the variability of timing estimates. Finally, this reduction in variability should scale with the interval being timed, so as to preserve the overall Weber law of interval timing. All three predictions are borne out experimentally. Thus, in the context of our novel theoretical framework, these results suggest that observers routinely rely on sensory input to augment their sense of the passage of time, through a process of Bayesian inference based on expectations of change in the natural environment.
Binocular rivalry occurs when an image is presented to one eye while at the same time another, incongruent, image is presented to the other eye in the corresponding retinotopic location and conscious perception alternates spontaneously between the two monocular views. If a short blank period is inserted between intermittent presentations of rivaling stimuli, perception is stabilized and spontaneous alternations are drastically reduced. Whether the complexity of rivaling stimuli plays a role in stabilization is unknown. We replicated previous findings that swapping the stimuli between eyes across presentations abolishes stabilization for Gabors, but for more complex stimuli (a face and a house in our experiment), stabilization is eye-specific and not disrupted. Phase scrambling the rivaling face and house images did not change the stabilization pattern showing that the pattern can be observed without high-level perceptual content. We conclude that overlaps at low visual stages are the most likely cause of the eye-specific stabilization for both stimulus types. Additionally, we examined the impact of swapping the flicker frequency of the images and found a general impact on stabilization not specific to stimulus type. Taken together, the findings indicate that choice of stimulus features impact greatly on the results obtained in stabilization paradigms.
Glia, the support cells of the central nervous system, have recently attracted considerable attention both as mediators of neural cell survival and as sources of neural regeneration. To further elucidate the role of glial and neural cells in neurodegeneration, we generated TrkB(GFAP) and TrkB(c-kit) knockout mice in which TrkB, a receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), is deleted in retinal glia or inner retinal neurons, respectively. Here, we show that the extent of glutamate-induced retinal degeneration was similar in these two mutant mice. Furthermore in TrkB(GFAP) knockout mice, BDNF did not prevent photoreceptor degeneration and failed to stimulate Mller glial cell proliferation and expression of neural markers in the degenerating retina. These results demonstrate that BDNF signalling in glia has important roles in neural protection and regeneration, particularly in conversion of Mller glia to photoreceptors. In addition, our genetic models provide a system in which glia- and neuron-specific gene functions can be tested in central nervous system tissues in vivo.
The function of neuronal networks relies on selective assembly of synaptic connections during development. We examined how synaptic specificity emerges in the pontocerebellar projection. Analysis of axon-target interactions with correlated light-electron microscopy revealed that developing pontine mossy fibers elaborate extensive cell-cell contacts and synaptic connections with Purkinje cells, an inappropriate target. Subsequently, mossy fiber-Purkinje cell connections are eliminated resulting in granule cell-specific mossy fiber connectivity as observed in mature cerebellar circuits. Formation of mossy fiber-Purkinje cell contacts is negatively regulated by Purkinje cell-derived BMP4. BMP4 limits mossy fiber growth in vitro and Purkinje cell-specific ablation of BMP4 in mice results in exuberant mossy fiber-Purkinje cell interactions. These findings demonstrate that synaptic specificity in the pontocerebellar projection is achieved through a stepwise mechanism that entails transient innervation of Purkinje cells, followed by synapse elimination. Moreover, this work establishes BMP4 as a retrograde signal that regulates the axon-target interactions during development.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a debilitating, chronic demyelinating disease of the central nervous system affecting over 2 million people worldwide. The TAM family of receptor tyrosine kinases (TYRO3, AXL and MERTK) have been implicated as important players during demyelination in both animal models of MS and in the human disease. We therefore conducted an association study to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within genes encoding the TAM receptors and their ligands associated with MS. Analysis of genotype data from a genome-wide association study which consisted of 1618 MS cases and 3413 healthy controls conducted by the Australia and New Zealand Multiple Sclerosis Genetics Consortium (ANZgene) revealed several SNPs within the MERTK gene (Chromosome 2q14.1, Accession Number NG_011607.1) that showed suggestive association with MS. We therefore interrogated 28 SNPs in MERTK in an independent replication cohort of 1140 MS cases and 1140 healthy controls. We found 12 SNPs that replicated, with 7 SNPs showing p-values of less than 10(-5) when the discovery and replication cohorts were combined. All 12 replicated SNPs were in strong linkage disequilibrium with each other. In combination, these data suggest the MERTK gene is a novel risk gene for MS susceptibility.
We recently demonstrated, in rat brain slices, that the usual excitation by noradrenaline (NA) of hypocretin/orexin (hcrt/orx) neurons was changed to an inhibition following sleep deprivation (SD). Here we describe that in control condition (CC), i.e. following 2 hours of natural sleep in the morning, the (2)-adrenergic receptor ((2)-AR) agonist, clonidine, had no effect on hcrt/orx neurons, whereas following 2 hours of SD (SDC), it hyperpolarized the neurons by activating G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels. Since concentrations of clonidine up to a thousand times (100 M) higher than those effective in SDC (100 nM), were completely ineffective in CC, a change in the availability of G-proteins is unlikely to explain the difference between the two conditions. To test whether the absence of effect of clonidine in CC could be due to a down-regulation of GIRK channels, we applied baclofen, a GABA(B) agonist known to also activate GIRK channels, and found that it hyperpolarized hcrt/orx neurons in that condition. Moreover, baclofen occluded the response to clonidine in SDC, indicating that absence of effect of clonidine in CC could not be attributed to down-regulation of GIRK channels. We finally tested whether (2)-ARs were still available at the membrane in CC and found that clonidine could reduce calcium currents, indicating that (2)-ARs associated with calcium channels remain available in that condition. Taken together, these results suggest that a pool of (2)-ARs associated with GIRK channels is normally down-regulated (or desensitized) in hcrt/orx neurons to only become available for their inhibition following sleep deprivation.
The inositol pyrophosphate, diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate, regulates p53 and protein kinase Akt signaling, and its aberrant increase in cells has been implicated in apoptosis and insulin resistance. Inositol hexakisphosphate kinase-2 (IP6K2), one of the major inositol pyrophosphate synthesizing enzymes, mediates p53-linked apoptotic cell death. Casein kinase-2 (CK2) promotes cell survival and is upregulated in tumors. We show that CK2 mediated cell survival involves IP6K2 destabilization. CK2 physiologically phosphorylates IP6K2 at amino acid residues S347 and S356 contained within a PEST sequence, a consensus site for ubiquitination. HCT116 cells depleted of IP6K2 are resistant to cell death elicited by CK2 inhibitors. CK2 phosphorylation at the degradation motif of IP6K2 enhances its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. IP6K2 mutants at the CK2 sites that are resistant to CK2 phosphorylation are metabolically stable.
TREK channels produce background currents that regulate cell excitability. These channels are sensitive to a wide variety of stimuli including polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), phospholipids, mechanical stretch, and intracellular acidification. They are inhibited by neurotransmitters, hormones, and pharmacological agents such as the antidepressant fluoxetine. TREK1 knockout mice have impaired PUFA-mediated neuroprotection to ischemia, reduced sensitivity to volatile anesthetics, altered perception of pain, and a depression-resistant phenotype. Here, we investigate TREK1 regulation by Gq-coupled receptors (GqPCR) and phospholipids. Several reports indicate that the C-terminal domain of TREK1 is a key regulatory domain. We developed a fluorescent-based technique that monitors the plasma membrane association of the C terminus of TREK1 in real time. Our fluorescence and functional experiments link the modulation of TREK1 channel function by internal pH, phospholipid, and GqPCRs to TREK1-C-terminal domain association to the plasma membrane, where increased association results in greater activity. In keeping with this relation, inhibition of TREK1 current by fluoxetine is found to be accompanied by dissociation of the C-terminal domain from the membrane.
How second language (L2) learning is achieved in the human brain remains one of the fundamental questions of neuroscience and linguistics. Previous neuroimaging studies with bilinguals have consistently shown overlapping cortical organization of the native language (L1) and L2, leading to a prediction that a common neurobiological marker may be responsible for the development of the two languages. Here, by using functional MRI, we show that later skills to read in L2 are predicted by the activity level of the fusiform-caudate circuit in the left hemisphere, which nonetheless is not predictive of the ability to read in the native language. We scanned 10-y-old children while they performed a lexical decision task on L2 (and L1) stimuli. The subjects' written language (reading) skills were behaviorally assessed twice, the first time just before we performed the fMRI scan (time 1 reading) and the second time 1 y later (time 2 reading). A whole-brain based analysis revealed that activity levels in left caudate and left fusiform gyrus correlated with L2 literacy skills at time 1. After controlling for the effects of time 1 reading and nonverbal IQ, or the effect of in-scanner lexical performance, the development in L2 literacy skills (time 2 reading) was also predicted by activity in left caudate and fusiform regions that are thought to mediate language control functions and resolve competition arising from L1 during L2 learning. Our findings suggest that the activity level of left caudate and fusiform regions serves as an important neurobiological marker for predicting accomplishment in reading skills in a new language.
Cortical networks undergo adaptations during learning, including increases in dendritic complexity and spines. We hypothesized that structural elaborations during learning are restricted to discrete subsets of cells preferentially activated by, and relevant to, novel experience. Accordingly, we examined corticospinal motor neurons segregated on the basis of their distinct descending projection patterns, and their contribution to specific aspects of motor control during a forelimb skilled grasping task in adult rats. Learning-mediated structural adaptations, including extensive expansions of spine density and dendritic complexity, were restricted solely to neurons associated with control of distal forelimb musculature required for skilled grasping; neurons associated with control of proximal musculature were unchanged by the experience. We further found that distal forelimb-projecting and proximal forelimb-projecting neurons are intermingled within motor cortex, and that this distribution does not change as a function of skill acquisition. These findings indicate that representations of novel experience in the adult motor cortex are associated with selective structural expansion in networks of functionally related, active neurons that are distributed across a single cortical domain. These results identify a distinct parcellation of cortical resources in support of learning.
Arthrogryposis, renal dysfunction, and cholestasis (ARC) syndrome is a fatal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the VPS33B or VPS16B genes. Both encode homologues of the Vps33p and Vps16p subunits of the HOPS complex necessary for fusions of vacuoles in yeast. Here, we describe a mutation in the full-of-bacteria (fob) gene, which encodes Drosophila Vps16B. Flies null for fob are homozygous viable and fertile. They exhibit, however, a defect in their immune defense that renders them hypersensitive to infections with nonpathogenic bacteria. fob hemocytes (fly macrophages) engulf bacteria but fail to digest them. Phagosomes undergo early steps of maturation and transition to a Rab7-positive stage, but do not mature to fully acidified phagolysosomes. This reflects a specific requirement of fob in the fusion of phagosomes with late endosomes/lysosomes. In contrast, cargo of autophagosomes as well as endosomes exhibit normal lysosomal delivery in fob cells. These findings suggest that defects in phagosome maturation may contribute to symptoms of ARC patients including recurring infections.
Lysosomal storage diseases are a group of disorders where accumulation of catabolites is manifested in the lysosomes of different cell types. In metachromatic leukodystrophy (Arylsulfatase A [EC.3.1.6.8] deficiency) storage of the glycosphingolipid sulfatide in the brain leads to demyelination, resulting in neuromotor co-ordination deficits and regression. In a mouse model for metachromatic leukodystrophy, the ASA null mutant mouse, the accumulation of sulfatide in correlation to phenotype has been thoroughly investigated. Another lipid species reported to accumulate in patients with metachromatic leukodystrophy is the sulfatide related lipid lysosulfatide. Lysosulfatide was shown to be a cytotoxic compound in cell culture experiments and thus suggested to be involved in the pathology of metachromatic leukodystrophy. In this study, we further investigated the developmental profile of lysosulfatide in the brain of ASA null mutant mice by using high performance liquid chromatography. Lysosulfatide could be detected in the brain of normal mice (ASA +/+) from 1.8 months up to 23.1 months of age. From the age of 8.8 months the lysosulfatide levels remained constant at 1 pmol/mg wet tissue. The developmental change (&lt; 20 months) of brain lysosulfatide showed an accumulation in ASA null mutant mice at ages above one month compared to its normal counterpart (ASA +/+). Thus, the ASA null mutant mouse might be a suitable model to further investigate the role of lysosulfatide in the pathogenesis of metachromatic leukodystrophy.
Agmatine is a biogenic amine (l-arginine metabolite) of potential relevance to several central nervous system (CNS) conditions. The identities of transporters underlying agmatine and polyamine disposition in mammalian systems are not well-defined. The SLC-family organic cation transporters (OCT) OCT1 and OCT2 and multidrug and toxin extrusion transporter-1 (MATE1) are transport systems that may be of importance for the cellular disposition of agmatine and putrescine. We investigated the transport of [(3)H]agmatine and [(3)H]putrescine in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells stably transfected with hOCT1, hOCT2, and hMATE1. Agmatine transport by hOCT1 and hOCT2 was concentration-dependent, whereas only hOCT2 demonstrated pH-dependent transport. hOCT2 exhibited a greater affinity for agmatine (K(m) = 1.84  0.38 mM) than did hOCT1 (K(m) = 18.73  4.86 mM). Putrescine accumulation was pH- and concentration-dependent in hOCT2-HEK cells (K(m) = 11.29  4.26 mM) but not hOCT1-HEK cells. Agmatine accumulation, in contrast to putrescine, was significantly enhanced by hMATE1 overexpression, and was saturable (K(m) = 240  31 M; V(max) = 192  10 pmol/min/mg of protein). Intracellular agmatine was also trans-stimulated (effluxed) from hMATE1-HEK cells in the presence of an inward proton-gradient. The hMATE1-mediated transport of agmatine was inhibited by polyamines, the prototypical substrates MPP+ and paraquat, as well as guanidine and arcaine, but not l-arginine. These results suggest that agmatine disposition may be influenced by hOCT2 and hMATE1, two transporters critical in the renal elimination of xenobiotic compounds.
We computationally study whether it is possible to stimulate a neuronal population in such a way that its mean firing rate increases without an increase of the population's net synchronization. For this, we use coordinated reset (CR) stimulation, which has previously been developed to desynchronize populations of oscillatory neurons. Intriguingly, delivered to a population of predominantly silent FitzHugh-Nagumo or Hindmarsh-Rose neurons at sufficient stimulation amplitudes, CR robustly causes a multi-frequency activation: different Arnold tongues such as 1:1 or n:m entrained neuronal clusters emerge, which consist of phase-shifted sub clusters. Owing to the clustering pattern the neurons' timing is well balanced, so that in total there is no synchronization. Our findings may contribute to the development of novel and safe stimulation treatments that specifically counteract cerebral hypo-activity without promoting pathological synchronization or inducing epileptic seizures.
Unusually for invertebrates, linguliform brachiopods employ calcium phosphate mineral in hard tissue formation, in common with the evolutionarily distant vertebrates. Using solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (SSNMR) and X-ray powder diffraction, we compare the organic constitution, crystallinity and organic matrix-mineral interface of phosphatic brachiopod shells with those of vertebrate bone. In particular, the organic-mineral interfaces crucial for the stability and properties of biomineral were probed with SSNMR rotational echo double resonance (REDOR). Lingula anatina and Discinisca tenuis shell materials yield strikingly dissimilar SSNMR spectra, arguing for quite different organic constitutions. However, their fluoroapatite-like mineral is highly crystalline, unlike the poorly ordered hydroxyapatite of bone. Neither shell material shows (13)C{(31)P} REDOR effects, excluding strong physico-chemical interactions between mineral and organic matrix, unlike bone in which glycosaminoglycans and proteins are composited with mineral at sub-nanometre length scales. Differences between organic matrix of shell material from L. anatina and D. tenuis, and bone reflect evolutionary pressures from contrasting habitats and structural purposes. The absence of organic-mineral intermolecular associations in brachiopod shell argues that biomineralization follows different mechanistic pathways to bone; their details hold clues to the molecular structural evolution of phosphatic biominerals, and may provide insights into novel composite design.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease involving mainly the upper and lower motor neurons of adult humans. With regard to the pathomechanism of spinal anterior horn cell (AHC) degeneration in ALS, copy number abnormalities of the survival motor neuron (SMN) genes have been reported in sporadic (s) ALS. SMN protein is the protein responsible for the pathogenesis of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), an autosomal recessive disease characterized by lower motor neuron loss and muscle atrophy. The disease is caused by deficiency of SMN protein induced by mutation of one of the SMA-associated genes, SMN1. To clarify the role of SMN protein in the degeneration of spinal AHCs in sALS, we examined the amount of cytoplasmic SMN protein in individual AHCs using cytofluorophotometry in 9 patients with sALS and 10 control subjects. It was found that: 1) SMN protein was present in the cytoplasm, nucleus and nucleolus of AHCs and in the nucleus of glial cells, 2) expression of SMN protein in AHCs was significantly associated with cell size in both sALS patients and controls, 3) expression of SMN protein per unit area in AHCs was similar in sALS patients and controls. These findings suggest that: 1) the amount of SMN protein in the cytoplasm of AHCs is strictly controlled in accordance with cell size, in both sALS patients and controls, 2) the amount of SMN protein in the AHCs of sALS patients may be reduced when the AHCs are atrophic, and 3) decrease of SMN protein in the AHCs of sALS patients may be a secondary, and not primary, phenomenon according to their sizes.

Protective mechanisms in pregnancy include Nausea and Vomiting in Pregnancy (NVP) (Fessler, 2002; Flaxman and Sherman, 2000), increased sensitivity to health cues (Jones et al., 2005), and increased vigilance to out-group members (Navarette, Fessler, and Eng, 2007). While common perception suggests that pregnancy results in decreased cognitive function, an adaptationist perspective might predict that some aspects of cognition would be enhanced during pregnancy if they help to protect the reproductive investment. We propose that a reallocation of cognitive resources from nonessential to critical areas engenders the cognitive decline observed in some studies. Here, we used a recognition task disguised as a health rating to determine whether pregnancy facilitates face recognition. We found that pregnant women were significantly better at recognizing faces and that this effect was particularly pronounced for own-race male faces. In human evolutionary history, and today, males present a significant threat to females. Thus, enhanced recognition of faces, and especially male faces, during pregnancy may serve a protective function.
Biomechanical properties of the human tongue are needed for finite element models of the upper airway and may be important to elucidate the pathophysiology of obstructive sleep apneoa. Tongue viscoelastic properties have not been characterized previously. Magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) is an emerging imaging technique that can measure the viscoelastic properties of soft tissues in-vivo. In this study, MRE was used to measure the viscoelastic properties of the tongue and soft palate in 7 healthy volunteers during quiet breathing. Results show that the storage shear modulus of the tongue and soft palate is 2.670.29 and 2.530.31 kPa (mean  SD), respectively. This is the first study to investigate the mechanical properties of the tongue using MRE, and it provides necessary data for future studies of patient groups with altered upper airway function.
Retinoids, a family of molecules that is derived from vitamin A, are involved in a complex signaling pathway that regulates gene expression and controls neuronal differentiation in the central nervous system. The physiological actions of retinoids are mainly mediated by retinoic acid receptors. Here we describe the distribution of retinoic acid receptor  (RAR) in the human hypothalamus by immunohistochemistry. RAR immunoreactivity showed a widespread pattern throughout the hypothalamus, with high density in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), paraventricular nucleus (PVN), supraoptic nucleus (SON), infundibular nucleus and medial mamillary nucleus. No staining was observed in the sexually dimorphic nucleus of preoptic area, tuberomamillary nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area. RAR was co-localized with vasopressin (AVP) neurons in the SCN, PVN and SON, and co-localized with corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the PVN. These findings provide a neurobiological basis for the participation of retinoids in the regulation of various hypothalamic functions. As shown earlier, the co-localization of RAR in CRH neurons suggests that retinoids might directly modulate the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis in the PVN, which may have implications for the stress response and its involvement in mood disorders. Functional studies in the other sites of RAR localization have to follow in the future.
Drug addiction is associated with altered dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in the basal ganglia. We have previously shown that chronic stimulation of the dopamine D2 receptor (D(2)R) with cocaine results in reduced striatal DA terminal density. The aims of this study were to establish whether this reduction in DA terminal density results in reduced striatal DA release and increased cocaine-seeking behaviour and whether D(2)R antagonism can restore the cocaine-induced alterations in DA neurotransmission and drug-seeking behaviour. Rats were housed individually and either control, cocaine, haloperidol (D(2)R antagonist), or cocaine and haloperidol was administered in the drinking water for 16 weeks. Chronic cocaine treatment, which reduced striatal DA terminal density by 20%, resulted in a reduction in basal (-34%) and cocaine-evoked (-33%) striatal DA release and increased cocaine-seeking behaviour. These cocaine-mediated effects on striatal DA terminal density, DA release and drug-seeking could be prevented by co-administration with haloperidol. Basal and cocaine-evoked DA release in the striatum directly correlated with DA terminal density and with preference for cocaine. We conclude that striatal DA terminal density and DA release is an important factor in maintaining drug preference and should be considered as a factor in drug-seeking behaviour and relapse.
Synaptic terminals often contain metabotropic receptors that act as autoreceptors to control neurotransmitter release. Less appreciated is the heterosynaptic crossover of glutamate receptors to control GABA release and vice versa GABA receptors which control glutamate release. In the brainstem, activation of solitary tract (ST) afferents releases glutamate onto second-order neurons within the solitary tract nucleus (NTS). Multiple metabotropic receptors are expressed in NTS for glutamate (mGluRs) and for GABA (GABA(B)). The present report identifies mGluR regulation of glutamate release at second and higher order sensory neurons in NTS slices. We found strong inhibition of glutamate release to group II and III mGluR activation on mechanically isolated NTS neurons. However, the same mGluR-selective antagonists paradoxically decreased glutamate release (miniature, mEPSCs) at identified second-order NTS neurons. Unaltered amplitudes were consistent with selective presynaptic mGluR actions. GABA(B) blockade in slices resolved the paradoxical differences and revealed a group II/III mGluR negative feedback of mEPSC frequency similar to isolated neurons. Thus, the balance of glutamate control is tipped by mGluR receptors on GABA terminals resulting in predominating heterosynaptic GABA(B) inhibition of glutamate release. Regulation by mGluR or GABA(B) was not consistently evident in excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in higher-order NTS neurons demonstrating metabotropic receptor distinctions in processing at different NTS pathway stages. These cellular localizations may figure importantly in understanding interventions such as brain-penetrant compounds or microinjections. We conclude that afferent glutamate release in NTS produces a coordinate presynaptic activation of co-localized mGluR and GABA(B) feedback on cranial afferent terminals to regulate glutamate release.
Paclitaxel is one of the most commonly used anti-neoplastic drugs for the treatment of solid tumors. Unfortunately, its use is often associated with dose-limiting painful peripheral neuropathy and subsequent neuropathic pain that is resistant to standard analgesics. However, there are few clinically available drugs or drug classes for the treatment of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy due to a lack of information regarding the mechanisms responsible for it. In this study, we examined the involvement of l-serine in paclitaxel-induced hyperalgesia/allodynia and decrease in sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV). We used a preclinical rat model of paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. Response to von Frey filaments, SNCV, 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (3PGDH) expression, and l-serine concentration were examined. Effects of l-serine administration were also investigated. Paclitaxel treatment induced mechanical allodynia/hyperalgesia and reduction of SNCV. Paclitaxel also decreased the l-serine concentration in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) but not in the sciatic nerve or spinal cord. In addition, paclitaxel decreased expression of 3PGDH, a biosynthetic enzyme of l-serine, in the DRG. Immunohistochemistry showed that 3PGDH was localized in satellite cells but not in neurons in the DRG. Intraperitoneal administration of l-serine improved both paclitaxel-induced mechanical allodynia/hyperalgesia and the reduction of SNCV. These results suggest that satellite cell-derived l-serine in the DRG plays an important role in paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. These findings may lead to novel strategies for the treatment of paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy.
There is high incidence of hippocampal abnormalities in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), including decreased neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, astrogliosis, low expression of brain derived neurotrophic factor and decreased neuronal density in the hilar region, respect of normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY). Estradiol treatment given for 2 weeks normalized the faulty hippocampal parameters of SHR, without having effects on WKY rats. The present work studied the potential role of local estrogen biosynthesis in the hippocampus of SHR and WKY, by measuring the expression of aromatase, the key enzyme responsible for estrogen biosynthesis and involved in neuroprotection. We used 4 month old male SHR and WKY, half of which received a single sc pellet of 12 mg estradiol benzoate and the remaining half a cholesterol implant. Hippocampi were dissected and processed for aromatase mRNA expression using real time PCR. A second batch of animals was processed for aromatase and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunocytochemistry. Basal level of aromatase mRNA was higher in SHR respect of WKY. Following estradiol treatment, aromatase mRNA was further increased in the SHR group only. In the hilus of the dentate gyrus of cholesterol-implanted SHR, we found aromatase immunoreactive cell processes and fibers more strongly stained respect of WKY rats. Estradiol treatment of SHR further increased the length of immunoreactive processes and fibers in the hilar region and also increased aromatase immunoreactivity in the CA1 but not the CA3 pyramidal cell region. WKY rats were spared from the estradiol effect. Double-labelling experiments showed that aromatase+ processes and fibers of the hilus of SHR-treated rats did no colocalize with GFAP+ astrocyte cell bodies or processes. In conclusion, basal and estradiol-stimulated aromatase expression was enhanced in hypertensive rat hippocampus. A combination of exogenous estrogens and those locally synthesized may better alleviate hypertensive encephalopathy.
In adult cortices, the ratio of excitatory and inhibitory conductances (E/I ratio) is presumably balanced across a wide range of stimulus conditions. However, it is unknown how the E/I ratio is postnatally regulated, when the strength of synapses are rapidly changing. Yet, understanding of such a process is critically important, because there are numerous neuropsychological disorders, such as autism, epilepsy and schizophrenia, associated with disturbed E/I balances. Here we directly measured the E/I ratio underlying locally induced synaptic conductances in principal neurons from postnatal day 8 (P8) through 60. We found that (1) within each developmental period, the E/I ratio across four major cortical layers was maintained at a similar value under wide range of stimulation intensities; and (2) there was a rapid developmental decrease in the E/I ratio, which occurred within a sensitive period between P8 to P18 with exception of layer II/III. By comparing the excitatory and inhibitory conductances, as well as key synaptic protein expressions, we found a net increase in the number and strength of inhibitory, but not excitatory synapses, is responsible for the developmental decrease in the E/I ratio in the barrel cortex. The inhibitory markers were intrinsically co-regulated, gave rise to a sharp increase in the inhibitory conductance from P8 to P18. These results suggest that the tightly regulated E/I ratios in adults cortex is a result of drastic changes in relative weight of inhibitory but not excitatory synapses during critical period, and the local inhibitory structural changes are the underpinning of altered E/I ratio across postnatal development.
Trimethyltin chloride (TMT) is known to produce neuronal damage in the rat hippocampus, especially in the CA(1)/CA(3) subfields, together with reactive astrogliosis. Previous studies indicate that in cultured rat hippocampal neurons the Ca(2+) cytosolic increase induced by TMT is correlated with apoptotic cell death, although some molecular aspects of the hippocampal neurodegeneration induced by this neurotoxicant still remain to be clarified. Cathepsin D (Cat D) is a lysosomal aspartic protease involved in some neurodegenerative processes and also seems to play an important role in the processes that regulate apoptosis. We investigated the specific activity and cellular expression of Cat D in the rat hippocampus in vivo and in cultured organotypic rat hippocampal slices. The role of Cat D in cell death processes and the mechanisms controlling Cat D were also investigated. Cat D activity was assayed in hippocampus homogenates of control and TMT-treated rats. In order to visualize the distribution of Cat D immunoreactivity in the hippocampus, double-label immunofluorescence for Cat D and Neu N, GFAP, OX42 was performed. In addition, in order to clarify the possible relationship between Cat D activity, neuronal calcium overload and neuronal death processes, organotypic hippocampal cultures were also treated with a Cat D inhibitor (Pepstatin A) or Calpain inhibitor (Calpeptin) or an intracellular Ca(2+) chelator (BAPTA-AM) in the presence of TMT. TMT treatment in rat hippocampus induced high levels of Cat D activity both in vivo and in vitro, in glial cells and in CA(3) neurons, where a marked TMT-induced neuronal loss also occurred. Cat D is actively involved in CA3 neuronal death and the protease increase is a calcium-Calpain dependent phenomenon.
Recent studies have highlighted cross-modal sensory modulations in the primary sensory areas in the cortex, suggesting that cross-modal sensory interactions occur at early stages in the hierarchy of sensory processing. Multi-modal sensory inputs from non-lemniscal thalamic nuclei and cortical inputs from the secondary sensory and association areas are considered responsible for the modulations. On the other hand, there is little evidence of cross-sensory modal sensitivities in lemniscal thalamic nuclei. In the present study, we were interested in a possibility that somatosensory stimulation may affect auditory response in the ventral division (MGV) of the medial geniculate nucleus (MG), a lemniscal thalamic nucleus that is considered to be dedicated to auditory uni-modal processing. Experiments were performed on anesthetized rats. Transcutaneous electrical stimulation of the hindpaw, which is thought to evoke nociception and seems unrelated to auditory processing, modulated unit discharges in response to auditory stimulation (noise bursts). The modulation was observed in the MGV and non-lemniscal auditory thalamic nuclei such as the dorsal and medial divisions of the MG. The major effect of somatosensory stimulation was suppression. The most robust suppression was induced by electrical stimuli given simultaneously with noise bursts or preceding noise bursts by 10 to 20 ms. The results indicate that the lemniscal (MGV) and non-lemniscal auditory nuclei are subject to somatosensory influence. In everyday experience intense somatosensory stimuli such as pain interrupt our ongoing hearing or interfere with clear recognition of sound. The modulation of lemniscal auditory response by somatosensory stimulation may underlie such cross-modal disturbance of auditory perception as a form of cross-modal switching of attention.
Nicotinamide exerts a potent neuroprotective effect against ischemia-induced brain injury. We identified proteins that were differentially expressed by nicotinamide treatment in ischemic brain injury. Focal cerebral ischemia was induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with vehicle or nicotinamide (500 mg/kg) 2 h after the onset of MCAO. Brains were collected 24 h after MCAO and cerebral cortex regions were isolated. Protein spots with different intensities between vehicle- and nicotinamide-treated groups were detected using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and identified by mass spectrometry. Among these proteins, -enolase, protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) subunit B, and peroxiredoxin-2 (Prx-2) were significantly decreased in the vehicle-treated group compared to the nicotinamide-treated group. These identified proteins mediate cell differentiation and stabilization, and play a role as antioxidant enzymes. In contrast, 60 kDa heat shock protein (Hsp 60) was significantly increased in vehicle-treated animals, while nicotinamide prevented the injury-induced increase of this protein. These results suggest that nicotinamide mediates neuroprotective effects by up- and down-regulation of various specific proteins.
Chronic stress induces dendritic retraction in the hippocampal CA3 subregion, but the mechanisms responsible for this retraction and its impact on neural circuitry are not well understood. To determine the role of NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartic acid) receptor (NMDAR)-mediated signaling in this process, we compared the effects of chronic immobilization stress (CIS) on hippocampal dendritic morphology, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation, and anxiety-related and hippocampus-dependent behaviors, in transgenic male mice in which the NMDAR had been selectively deleted in CA3 pyramidal cells and in non-mutant littermates. We found that CIS exposure for 10 consecutive days in non-mutant mice effectively induces HPA axis activation and dendritic retraction of CA3 short-shaft pyramidal neurons, but not CA3 long-shaft pyramidal neurons, suggesting a differential cellular stress response in this region. Dendritic reorganization of short-shaft neurons occurred throughout the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus and, in particular, in the ventral pole of this structure. We also observed a robust retraction of dendrites in dorsal CA1 pyramidal neurons in the non-mutant C57BL/6 mouse strain. Strikingly, chronic stress-induced dendritic retraction was not evident in any of the neurons in either CA3 or CA1 in the mutant mice that had a functional lack of NMDARs restricted to CA3 pyramidal neurons. Interestingly, the prevention of dendritic retraction in the mutant mice had a minimal effect on HPA axis activation and behavioral alterations that were induced by chronic stress. These data support a role for NMDAR-dependent glutamatergic signaling in CA3 in the cell-type specific induction of dendritic retraction in two hippocampal subregions following chronic stress.
A mouse model of amyloid pathology was used to first examine using a cross sectional design changes in retrosplenial cortex activity in transgenic mice aged 5, 11, 17, and 23 months. Attention focused on: (1) overt amyloid labeled with -amyloid((1-42)) and Congo Red staining, (2) metabolic function assessed by the enzyme, cytochrome oxidase, and (3) neuronal activity as assessed indirectly by the immediate-early gene (IEG), c-Fos. Changes in cytochrome oxidase and c-Fos activity were observed in the retrosplenial cortex in Tg2576 mice as early as 5 months of age, long before evidence of plaque formation. Subsequent analyses concentrating on this early dysfunction revealed at 5 months pervasive, amyloid precursor protein (APP)-derived peptide accumulation in the retrosplenial cortex and selective afferents (anterior thalamus, hippocampus), which was associated with the observed c-Fos hyporeactivity. These findings indicate that retrosplenial cortex dysfunction occurs during early stages of amyloid production in Tg2576 mice and may contribute to cognitive dysfunction.
It is unclear how haptic touch with a stable surface reduces postural sway. We hypothesized that haptic input enhances postural stability due to alterations in axial postural tone. We measured the influence of heavy and light touch (LT) of the hands on a stable bar on axial postural tone and postural sway during stance in 14 healthy adults. A unique &quot;Twister&quot; device measured hip torque by fixing the upper body in space while oscillating the surface in yaw 10 at 1 deg/s. Subjects were tested while: (1) standing quietly with their arms at their sides, (2) lightly touching a rigid bar in front of them and (3) firmly gripping the bar. Horizontal and vertical sway was not restricted by the device's yaw fixation, therefore, the subjects remained in a state of active postural control during the three touch conditions. Haptic touch significantly increased hip postural tone by 44% during light touch, from 2.50.9 to 3.61.0 Nm (P=0.005), and by 40% during firm grip to 3.50.8 Nm (P=0.005). Increases in hip postural tone were associated with a reduction in postural sway (r=-0.55, P=0.001). This is the first study showing that axial postural tone can be modified by remote somatosensory input and provides a potential explanation for how light touch improves postural stability. Changes in subjects' perception from trunk to surface rotation when changing from no touch (NT) to haptic touch, suggests that the CNS changes from using a global, to a local, trunk reference frame for control of posture during touch. The increase of hip postural tone during touching and gripping can be explained as a suppression of hip muscle shortening reactions that normally assist axial rotation.
Respiratory depression is the most well-known and dangerous side-effect of opioid analgesics. Clinical investigations have revealed that this opioid-induced respiratory depression is less severe in patients with chronic pain, but the mechanisms that underlie this phenomenon are unknown. Therefore, the present study was designed to examine the influence of chronic pain on morphine-induced respiratory depression. Respiration was detected by double-chamber, flow-through whole-body plethysmography. Respiratory frequency was dose-dependently and significantly decreased after morphine administration. This effect peaked at 30 min after administration and lasted 3 h. In contrast, tidal volume was increased. Minute volume was significantly decreased by morphine at a higher dose, but not a lower dose. In nerve-ligated mice, a morphine-induced decrease in respiratory frequency was observed, whereas the increase of tidal volume was more prominent. A decrease in minute volume was not observed in nerve-ligated mice. This attenuation of the morphine-induced decrease in minute volume in nerve-ligated mice was reversed by treatment with the serotonin (5-HT)4a receptor antagonist GR125487. Moreover, treatment with the 5-HT4 receptor agonist mosapride antagonized the morphine-induced decrease in minute volume, due to the enhancement of tidal volume. Finally, the expression of 5-HT4a receptor in the brainstem was enhanced in nerve-ligated mice compared to that in sham-operated mice. These results suggest that the decrease in morphine-induced respiratory depression under chronic pain is mediated by the enhancement of 5-HT4a receptor systems in the brainstem.
Current evidence suggests that exercise and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) independently cause significant morphological changes in the neuromuscular system. The aim of the current study was to determine if increased physical activity regulates GDNF protein content in rat skeletal muscle. Extensor Digitorum Longus (EDL) and Soleus (SOL) hind limb skeletal muscles were analyzed following 2 weeks of involuntary exercise and 4 h of field stimulation or stretch in muscle bath preparations. GDNF protein content was measured via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Two weeks of exercise increased GDNF protein content in SOL as compared to sedentary controls (4.40.3 pg GDNF/mg tissue and 3.10.6 pg GDNF/mg tissue, respectively) and decreased GDNF protein content in EDL as compared to controls (1.00.1 pg GDNF/mg tissue and 2.30.7 pg GDNF/mg tissue, respectively). GDNF protein content in the EDL decreased following both field stimulation (56%18% decrease from controls) and stretch (66%10% decrease from controls). SOL responded to field stimulation with a 38%7% increase from controls in GDNF protein content, but showed no change following stretch. Pre-treatment with -bungarotoxin abolished the effects of field stimulation in both muscles and blocked the effect of stretch in EDL. -bungarotoxin pre-treatment and stretch increased GDNF protein content to 240%10% of controls in the SOL. Exposure to carbamylcholine decreased GDNF protein content to 51%28% of controls in the EDL but not SOL. These results suggest that GDNF protein content in skeletal muscle may be controlled by stretch, where it may increase GDNF protein content, and membrane depolarization/acetylcholine (ACh) which acts to decrease GDNF protein content.
In rod photoreceptors, signaling persists as long as rhodopsin remains catalytically active. Phosphorylation by rhodopsin kinase followed by arrestin-1 binding completely deactivates rhodopsin. Timely termination prevents excessive signaling and ensures rapid recovery. Mouse rods express arrestin-1 and rhodopsin at 0.8:1 ratio, making arrestin-1 the second most abundant protein in the rod. The biological significance of wild type arrestin-1 expression level remains unclear. Here we investigated the effects of varying arrestin-1 expression on its intracellular distribution in dark-adapted photoreceptors, rod functional performance, recovery kinetics, and morphology. We found that rod outer segments isolated from dark-adapted animals expressing arrestin-1 at wild type or higher level contain much greater fraction of arrestin-1 than previously estimated, 15-25% of the total. The fraction of arrestin-1 residing in the outer segments (OS) in animals with low expression (4-12% of wild type) is much lower, 5-7% of the total. Only 4% of wild type arrestin-1 level in the outer segments was sufficient to maintain near-normal retinal morphology, whereas rapid recovery required at least 12%. Supra-physiological arrestin-1 expression improved light sensitivity and facilitated photoresponse recovery, but was detrimental for photoreceptor health, particularly in the peripheral retina. Thus, physiological level of arrestin-1 expression in rods reflects the balance between short-term functional performance of photoreceptors and their long-term health.
The performance of a demanding exercise can result in motor performance deterioration and depression of primary motor cortex excitability. In the present work we defined a motor task that requires measurable skilled performance to unveil motor performance changes during the execution of a demanding task and to investigate the dynamics of motor performance and cortical excitability changes in absence of overt peripheral fatigue. Twenty-one normal subjects, divided into three groups were asked to perform a sequence of finger opposition movements (SEQ) paced at 2 Hz for 5 min, quantitatively evaluated by means of a sensor-engineered glove able to perform a spatio-temporal analysis of motor performance. Maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) was evaluated before and after the motor task in group 1 while motor evoked potentials (MEP) were evaluated before and after the motor task in group 2 and 3. Group 1 and 2 performed the 5 min-SEQ while group 3 was asked to perform the 5 min-SEQ twice to assess the dynamics of motor performance and cortical excitability. As a result, we found that the execution of 5 min-SEQ induced motor performance deterioration associated with no change in MVC but a decrease in cortical excitability. We further found that the dynamics of cortical excitability and motor performance were different. In fact, a short rest period (i.e., period necessary to collect MEP) between the execution of two 5 min-SEQs was able to recover the motor performance but not the cortical excitability. Finally, no change in spinal excitability was observed. These findings suggest that although primary motor cortex seems to be mainly involved in motor performance deterioration during the execution of a demanding finger motor task, the recovery of motor performance does not follow cortical excitability dynamics.
Nitric oxide (NO) produced by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) has a role in late-phase long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term memory (LTM) formation. Our recent studies implicated NO signaling in contextual and auditory cued fear conditioning. The present study investigated the role of NO signaling in visually cued fear conditioning. First, visually cued fear conditioning was investigated in wild-type (WT) and nNOS knockout (KO) mice. Second, the effects of pharmacological modulators of NO signaling on the acquisition of visually cued fear conditioning were investigated. Third, plasma levels of corticosterone were measured to determine a relationship between physiological and behavioral responses to fear conditioning. Fourth, levels of extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK1/2) and cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation, downstream of NO signaling, were determined in the amygdala as potential correlates of fear learning. Mice underwent single or multiple (4) spaced trainings that consisted of a visual cue (blinking light) paired with footshock. WT mice acquired cued and contextual LTM following single and multiple trainings. nNOS KO mice acquired neither cued nor contextual LTM following a single training; however, multiple trainings improved contextual but not cued LTM. The selective nNOS inhibitor S-methyl-thiocitrulline (SMTC) impaired cued and contextual LTM in WT mice. The NO donor molsidomine recovered contextual LTM but had no effect on cued LTM in nNOS KO mice. Re-exposure to the visual cue 24 h posttraining elicited freezing response and a marked increase in plasma corticosterone levels in WT but not nNOS KO mice. The expression of CREB phosphorylation (Ser-133) was significantly higher in naive nNOS KO mice than in WT counterparts, and pharmacological modulators of NO had significant effects on levels of CREB phosphorylation and expression. These findings suggest that visual cue-dependent LTM is impaired in nNOS KO mice, and aberrant modulation of CREB in the absence of the nNOS gene may hinder cued and contextual LTM formation.
Neuronal cell death induced by anaesthetics in the developing brain was evident in previous pre-clinical studies. However, the neuronal cell types involved in anaesthesia-induced neuronal cell death remains elusive. The aim of this study was to investigate glutamatergic, GABAergic, cholinergic and dopaminergic neuronal cell apoptosis induced by anaesthetic exposure in specific brain regions in rats. Separate cohorts of 7-day-old Sprague Dawley (SD) rat pups were randomly assigned to two groups: Naive and anaesthetics alone (70% nitrous oxide and 0.75% isoflurane exposure for 6 h). The brains were sectioned and the slices that contained the basal forebrain, substantia nigra, cornu ammonis area 1 (CA1) subarea of hippocampus or cingulate cortex were selected and subsequently subjected to double-labelled fluorescent immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase, dopamine, vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (vGLUT1) or glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) together with caspase 3, respectively. Compared to the naive control, anaesthetic exposure significantly increased the number of caspase-3 positive cells in the CA1 subarea of hippocampus, cingulate cortex, and substantia nigra, but not in the basal forebrain. 54% and 14% of apoptotic cells in the CA1 subarea of hippocampus were GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons respectively. In the cingulate cortex, 30% and 37% of apoptotic cells were GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons respectively. In the substantia nigra, 22% of apoptotic cells were dopaminergic neurons. Our data suggests, anaesthetic exposure significantly increases neuroapoptosis of glutamatergic, GABAergic and dopaminergic neurons in the developing brain but not that of the cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain.
The hippocampus is a brain region that is particularly susceptible to structural and functional changes in response to chronic stress. Recent literature has focused on changes in gene transcription mediated by post-translational modifications of histones in response to stressful stimuli. Chronic variable stress (CVS) is a rodent model that mimics certain symptoms of depression in humans. Given that stress exhibits distinct effects on the cells of the sub-regions of the hippocampus, we investigated changes in histone acetylation in the CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus in response to CVS. Western blotting revealed a significant decrease in acetylation of histone 4 (H4) at Lys12 in CA3 and DG of CVS animals compared to control animals. Furthermore, phospho-acetyl H3 (Lys9/Ser10) was also decreased in the CA3 and DG regions of the hippocampus of CVS animals. In addition, since histone deacetylases (HDACs) contribute to the acetylation state of histones, we investigated the effects of two HDAC inhibitors, sodium butyrate, a class I and II global HDAC inhibitor, and sirtinol, a class III sirtuin inhibitor, on acetylation of histone 3 (H3) and H4. Application of HDAC inhibitors to hippocampus slices from control and CVS animals revealed increased histone acetylation in CVS animals, suggesting that levels of histone deacetylation by HDACs were higher in the CVS animals compared to control animals. Interestingly, histone acetylation in response to sirtinol was selectively increased in the slices from the CVS animals, with very little effect of sirtuin inhibitors in slices from control animals. In addition, sirtuin activity was increased specifically in CA3 and DG of CVS animals. These results suggest a complex and regionally-specific pattern of changes in histone acetylation within the hippocampus which may contribute to stress-induced pathology.
Chronic restraint stress produces morphological changes in medial prefrontal cortex and disrupts a prefrontally mediated behavior, retrieval of extinction. To assess potential physiological correlates of these alterations, we compared neural activity in infralimbic and prelimbic cortex of unstressed versus stressed rats during fear conditioning and extinction. After implantation of microwire bundles into infralimbic or prelimbic cortex, rats were either unstressed or stressed via placement in a plastic restrainer (3 h/day for 1 week). Rats then underwent fear conditioning and extinction while activity of neurons in infralimbic or prelimbic cortex was recorded. Percent freezing and neural activity were assessed during all phases of training. Chronic stress enhanced freezing during acquisition of conditioned fear, and altered both prelimbic and infralimbic activity during this phase. Stress did not alter initial extinction or conditioned stimulus (CS)-related activity during this phase. However, stress impaired retrieval of extinction assessed 24 h later, and this was accompanied by alterations in neuronal activity in both prelimbic and infralimbic cortex. In prelimbic cortex, unstressed rats showed decreased activity in response to CS presentation, whereas stressed rats showed no change. In infralimbic cortex, neurons in unstressed rats exhibited increased firing in response to the CS, whereas stressed rats showed no increase in infralimbic firing during the tone. Finally, CS-related firing in infralimbic but not prelimbic cortex was correlated with extinction retrieval. Thus, the stress-induced alteration of neuronal activity in infralimbic cortex may be responsible for the stress-induced deficit in retrieval of extinction.
Clinical and experimental evidence demonstrates that endocannabinoids play either beneficial or adverse roles in many neurological and psychiatric disorders. Their medical significance may be best explained by the emerging concept that endocannabinoids are essential modulators of synaptic transmission throughout the central nervous system. However, the precise molecular architecture of the endocannabinoid signaling machinery in the human brain remains elusive. To address this issue, we investigated the synaptic distribution of metabolic enzymes for the most abundant endocannabinoid molecule, 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), in the postmortem human hippocampus. Immunostaining for diacylglycerol lipase- (DGL-), the main synthesizing enzyme of 2-AG, resulted in a laminar pattern corresponding to the termination zones of glutamatergic pathways. The highest density of DGL--immunostaining was observed in strata radiatum and oriens of the cornu ammonis and in the inner third of stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus. At higher magnification, DGL--immunopositive puncta were distributed throughout the neuropil outlining the immunonegative main dendrites of pyramidal and granule cells. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that this pattern was due to the accumulation of DGL- in dendritic spine heads. Similar DGL--immunostaining pattern was also found in hippocampi of wild-type, but not of DGL- knockout mice. Using two independent antibodies developed against monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL), the predominant enzyme inactivating 2-AG, immunostaining also revealed a laminar and punctate staining pattern. However, as observed previously in rodent hippocampus, MGL was enriched in axon terminals instead of postsynaptic structures at the ultrastructural level. Taken together, these findings demonstrate the post- and presynaptic segregation of primary enzymes responsible for synthesis and elimination of 2-AG, respectively, in the human hippocampus. Thus, molecular architecture of the endocannabinoid signaling machinery supports retrograde regulation of synaptic activity, and its similar blueprint in rodents and humans further indicates that 2-AG's physiological role as a negative feed-back signal is an evolutionarily conserved feature of excitatory synapses.
Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness with a strong genetic predisposition. Accumulating evidence from human genetics and animal studies suggest v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (Akt1) might contribute to susceptibility for schizophrenia. In contrast to inconclusive findings in human genetic studies, a mutant mouse model is a simplified and alternative approach to determining the biological functions of AKT1 and its possible role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. In study 1, a comprehensive battery of behavioral tests was performed on both male and female mice. The results of behavioral phenotyping did not reveal significant differences between genotypes or sexes, except increased time of immobility in the tail suspension test and acoustic prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits in Akt1-knockout females. On the basis of the observed PPI deficit, in study 2a, neuromorphological alterations were examined with morphometric analysis of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-labeled pyramidal neurons in the auditory cortex of female mice. The results indicated abnormalities in the architecture and complexity of the neurons of mutant females compared with those of the controls. In study 2b, potentially effective pharmacological treatments were explored to mitigate the observed PPI deficits in females. Antipsychotics (either raclopride (3 mg/kg) or clozapine (3 mg/kg)) did not alleviate observed PPI deficits in Akt1-knockout females but it was partially normalized by 8-hydroxy-N,N-dipropyl-2-aminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT, 5 mg/kg) and SB216763 (2.5 mg/kg). These findings imply the importance of AKT1 in some behavioral phenotypes and dendritic morphology in the auditory cortex of female mice, and they also suggest that subjects with Akt1 deficiency are insensitive to antipsychotic drugs, whereas glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) inhibitors could have therapeutic potential for the treatment of acoustic PPI deficits.
Obesity is the single greatest risk factor for the development of Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), with the prevalence of both dramatically increasing in recent years. These conditions are associated with medical complications such as hypertension, neuropathy and cardiovascular disease. Recent evidence also suggests a greater risk of developing dementia including Alzheimer's disease. The molecular mechanisms governing these changes remain obscure, although epidemiological evidence suggests that reduced insulin sensitivity (a characteristic of T2DM) is an independent risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Here we examine the effects of diet-induced insulin resistance on cognitive ability in an animal model not predisposed to develop Alzheimer's pathology. Following 12 weeks on a high fat diet (45% of calories as crude fat) male Wistar rats were overweight and insulin resistant but not frankly diabetic. High fat fed animals were consistently poorer in all aspects of an operant based delayed matching to position task, yet were not impaired in spatial working memory as judged by the open field watermaze test. The cognitive deficit of the HF fed animals was most apparent when the task was switched from matching to non-matching to position, suggestive of an inability to change contingency. Performance in this task was negatively correlated with whole body insulin sensitivity but not weight gain. In conclusion this study has shown that insulin resistant animals exhibit impairments in an operant measure of behavioural flexibility which precede the development of diabetes.
Self-injurious behavior (SIB) is a debilitating characteristic that is prevalent across a broad spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders. In most of these disorders, some individuals exhibit SIB, whereas others do not. However, the neurobiological mechanisms that confer vulnerability are virtually unexplored. We examined innate characteristics that contribute to vulnerability or resistance for SIB in an animal model of the behavioral pathology. Eighteen outbred Long-Evans rats were screened for behavioral responsiveness to the mild stress of a novel environment. The rats were then categorized as high responders (HR; those rats that had the highest locomotor counts) or low responders (LR; those rats that had lower locomotor counts) by median split. All the rats were then given daily injections of the indirect monoamine agonist pemoline (150 mg/kg/day) for 10 days, and self-injury was evaluated. All 9 HR rats and 5 of the 9 LR rats exhibited self-injury. The HR rats spent more time self-injuring, injured more body sites, and caused larger areas of tissue damage than the LR rats did. Furthermore, the behavioral responsiveness to novelty stress was significantly correlated with each of these measures of self-injury. The HR rats did not exhibit substantially enhanced responses on other measures of psychostimulant action (stereotypy, grooming, locomotion, rearing). Accordingly, vulnerability to develop pemoline-induced SIB is positively correlated with, and can be predicted based upon, a behavioral measure of innate stress responsiveness. These findings suggest that characteristics that are common in developmental disorders may help predispose afflicted individuals to self-injure. The findings also extend the variety of behavioral pathologies (e.g. drug addiction) for which the HR/LR model predicts vulnerability.
Orexinergic projection originated from the lateral hypothalamus (LH) to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) has an important role in the acquisition of morphine conditioned place preference (CPP). However, little if any is known about the function and/or effect of orexin on CPP in rats. In the present study, we investigated the direct effect of orexinergic neurons on acquisition of CPP by chemical stimulation of LH and involvement of orexin-A and CB1 receptors within the VTA in development of reward-related behaviors. 129 adult male albino Wistar rats weighing 220-320 g were unilaterally implanted by two separate cannulae into the LH and VTA. The CPP paradigm was done; conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software. The results showed that unilateral intra-LH administration of carbachol (62.5, 125 and 250 nmol/0.5 l saline) as a cholinergic agonist, during conditioning phase, induced CPP in a dose-dependent manner. The maximal effect was shown at the dose of 250 nmol (P&lt;0.001) compared to vehicle (saline) group. However, intra-VTA administration of SB334867 as a selective orexin-A receptor antagonist (0.1, 1 and 10 nmol/0.3 l DMSO) and AM251 (5, 25 and 125 nmol/0.3 l DMSO) as a CB1 receptor antagonist, just 5 min before carbachol during the 3-day conditioning phase, could dose-dependently inhibit the development of LH stimulation-induced CPP in the rats. It is supposed that the orexinergic projection from LH to VTA is involved in LH chemical stimulation-induced CPP and orexin-A receptor in the VTA has a substantial role in this phenomenon. Our findings also suggest the existence of cross-talk between cannabinoid and orexinergic systems within the VTA in conditioned place preference paradigm.
Repeated exposure to the same stressor very often results in a reduction of some prototypical stress responses, namely those related to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) and sympatho-medullo-adrenal (SMA) axes. This reduced response to repeated exposure to the same (homotypic) stressor (adaptation) is usually considered as a habituation-like process, and therefore, a non-associative type of learning. However, there is some evidence that contextual cues and therefore associative processes could contribute to adaptation. In the present study we demonstrated in two experiments using adult male rats that repeated daily exposure to restraint (REST) or immobilization on boards (IMO) reduced the HPA (plasma levels of ACTH and corticosterone) and glucose responses to the homotypic stressor and such reduced responses remained intact when all putative cues associated to the procedure (experimenter, way of transporting to the stress room, stress boxes, stress room and colour of the restrainer in the case of REST) were modified on the next day. Therefore, the present results do not favour the view that adaptation after repeated exposure to a stressor may involve associative processes related to signals predicting the imminence of the stressors, but more studies are needed on this issue.
D-amino acid oxidase (DAO), an enzyme that degrades d-serine, has been suggested as a susceptibility factor for schizophrenia. Here we sought to understand more about the behavioral consequence of lacking DAO and the potential therapeutic implication of DAO inhibition by characterizing a mouse strain (ddY/DAO(-)) lacking DAO activity. We found that the mutant mice showed enhanced prepulse inhibition responses (PPI). Intriguingly, DAO-/- mice had increased sensitivity to the PPI-disruptive effect induced by the competitive NMDA antagonist, SDZ 220-581. In the 24-h inhibitory avoidance test, DAO-/- mice were not different from DAO+/+ mice during the recall. In Barnes Maze, we found that DAO-/- mice had a shortened latency to enter the escape tunnel. Interestingly, although these mice were hypoactive when tested in a protected open field, they showed a profound increase of activity on the edge of the unprotected open field of the Barnes Maze even with the escape tunnel removed. This increased edge activity does not appear to be related to a reduced level of anxiety given that there were no significant genotype effects on the measures of anxiety-like behaviors in two standard animal models of anxiety, elevated plus maze and novelty suppressed feeding. Our data suggest that DAO-/- mice might have altered functioning of NMDARs. However, these results provide only modest support for manipulations of DAO activity as a potential therapeutic approach to treat schizophrenia.

mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1; mammalian target of rapamycin [mTOR] in complex with raptor) is a key regulator of protein synthesis and cell growth in response to nutrient amino acids. Here we report that inositol polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK), which possesses both inositol phosphate kinase and lipid kinase activities, regulates amino acid signaling to mTORC1. This regulation is independent of IPMK's catalytic function, instead reflecting its binding with mTOR and raptor, which maintains the mTOR-raptor association. Thus, IPMK appears to be a physiologic mTOR cofactor, serving as a determinant of mTORC1 stability and amino acid-induced mTOR signaling. Substances that block IPMK-mTORC1 binding may afford therapeutic benefit in nutrient amino acid-regulated conditions such as obesity and diabetes.
Maternal nutrition and metabolism are critical determinants of adult offspring health. Recent reports describe adverse offspring outcomes associated with the father's diet, indicating nongenetic inheritance of paternal experience. Determining underlying mechanisms may require reconsideration of our understanding of the heritability of epigenetic states.
Simulation models of expression recognition contend that to understand another's facial expressions, individuals map the perceived expression onto the same sensorimotor representations that are active during the experience of the perceived emotion. To investigate this view, the present study examines facial expression and identity recognition abilities in a rare group of participants who show facilitated sensorimotor simulation (mirror-touch synesthetes). Mirror-touch synesthetes experience touch on their own body when observing touch to another person. These experiences have been linked to heightened sensorimotor simulation in the shared-touch network (brain regions active during the passive observation and experience of touch). Mirror-touch synesthetes outperformed nonsynesthetic participants on measures of facial expression recognition, but not on control measures of face memory or facial identity perception. These findings imply a role for sensorimotor simulation processes in the recognition of facial affect, but not facial identity.
To reach the open state, the GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) is assumed to bind two agonist molecules. Although it is currently believed that GABA(A)R could also operate in the monoliganded state, the gating properties of singly bound GABA(A)R are poorly understood and their physiological role is still obscure. In the present study, we characterize for the first time the gating properties of singly bound GABA(A)Rs by using a mutagenesis approach and we propose that monoliganded GABA(A)R contribute in shaping synaptic responses. At saturating GABA concentrations, currents mediated by recombinant GABA(A)Rs with a single functional binding site display slow onset, fast deactivation kinetics, and slow rate of desensitization-resensitization. GABA(A)Rs with two binding sites activated by brief pulses of subsaturating GABA concentrations (in the range of the GABA concentration profile in the synaptic cleft) could also mediate fast deactivating currents, displaying deactivation kinetics similar to those mediated by GABA(A)Rs with a single functional binding site. Model simulations of receptors activated by realistic synaptic GABA waves revealed that a considerable proportion of GABA(A) receptors open in the monoliganded state during synaptic transmission, therefore contributing in shaping IPSCs.
The confounding of physical stimulus characteristics and perceptual interpretations of stimuli poses a problem for most neuroscientific studies of perception. In the auditory domain, this pertains to the entanglement of acoustics and percept. Traditionally, most study designs have relied on cognitive subtraction logic, which demands the use of one or more comparisons between stimulus types. This does not allow for a differentiation between effects due to acoustic differences (i.e., sensation) and those due to conscious perception. To overcome this problem, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in humans and pattern-recognition analysis to identify activation patterns that encode the perceptual interpretation of physically identical, ambiguous sounds. We show that it is possible to retrieve the perceptual interpretation of ambiguous phonemes-information that is fully subjective to the listener-from fMRI measurements of brain activity in auditory areas in the superior temporal cortex, most prominently on the posterior bank of the left Heschl's gyrus and sulcus and in the adjoining left planum temporale. These findings suggest that, beyond the basic acoustic analysis of sounds, constructive perceptual processes take place in these relatively early cortical auditory networks. This disagrees with hierarchical models of auditory processing, which generally conceive of these areas as sets of feature detectors, whose task is restricted to the analysis of physical characteristics and the structure of sounds.
An established memory can be made transiently labile if retrieved or reactivated. Over time, it becomes again resistant to disruption and this process that renders the memory stable is termed reconsolidation. The reasons why a memory becomes labile after retrieval and reconsolidates still remains debated. Here, using inhibitory avoidance learning in rats, we provide evidence that retrievals of a young memory, which are accompanied by its reconsolidation, result in memory strengthening and contribute to its overall consolidation. This function associated to reconsolidation is temporally limited. With the passage of time, the stored memory undergoes important changes, as revealed by the behavioral outcomes of its retrieval. Over time, without explicit retrievals, memory first strengthens and becomes refractory to both retrieval-dependent interference and strengthening. At later times, the same retrievals that lead to reconsolidation of a young memory extinguish an older memory. We conclude that the storage of information is very dynamic and that its temporal evolution regulates behavioral outcomes. These results are important for potential clinical applications.
The decision to perform, or not perform, actions known to lead to a rewarding outcome is strongly influenced by the current incentive value of the reward. Incentive value is largely determined by the affective experience derived during previous consumption of the reward-the process of incentive learning. We trained rats on a two-lever, seeking-taking chain paradigm for sucrose reward, in which responding on the initial seeking lever of the chain was demonstrably controlled by the incentive value of the reward. We found that infusion of the -opioid receptor antagonist, CTOP (d-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2)), into the basolateral amygdala (BLA) during posttraining, noncontingent consumption of sucrose in a novel elevated-hunger state (a positive incentive learning opportunity) blocked the encoding of incentive value information normally used to increase subsequent sucrose-seeking responses. Similar treatment with  [N, N-diallyl-Tyr-Aib-Aib-Phe-Leu-OH (ICI 174,864)] or  [5'-guanidinonaltrindole (GNTI)] antagonists was without effect. Interestingly, none of these drugs affected the ability of the rats to encode a decrease in incentive value resulting from experiencing the sucrose in a novel reduced-hunger state. However, the  agonist, DAMGO ([d-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly5-ol]-enkephalin), appeared to attenuate this negative incentive learning. These data suggest that upshifts and downshifts in endogenous opioid transmission in the BLA mediate the encoding of positive and negative shifts in incentive value, respectively, through actions at -opioid receptors, and provide insight into a mechanism through which opiates may elicit inappropriate desire resulting in their continued intake in the face of diminishing affective experience.
