








Living cells maintain a balance between oxidation and reduction, and perturbations of this redox balance are thought to contribute to various diseases. Recent attempts to regulate redox state have focused on electrophiles (EPs), which activate potent cellular defense systems against oxidative stress. One example of this approach is exemplified by carnosic acid (CA) and carnosol (CS), compounds that are found in the herb rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis). Importantly, CA and CS themselves are not electrophilic, but in response to oxidation, become electrophilic, and then activate the Keap1/Nrf2/ARE (antioxidant-response element) transcription pathway to synthesize endogenous antioxidant &quot;phase 2&quot;enzymes. As a result of our efforts to develop these compounds as therapeutics for brain health, we have formulated two innovative criteria for drug development: the first concept is the use of pro-electrophilic drugs (PEDs) that are innocuous in and of themselves; and the second concept involves the use of compounds that are pathologically activated therapeutics (PATs); i.e., these small molecules are chemically converted to their active form by the very oxidative stress that they are designed to then combat. The chemical basis for PED and PAT drugs is embodied in the ortho- and para-hydroquinone electrophilic cores of the molecules, which are oxidized by the Cu(2+)/Cu(+) cycling system (or potentially by other transition metals). Importantly, this cycling pathway is under stringent regulation by the cell redox state. We propose that redox-dependent quinone formation is the predominant mechanism for formation of PED and PAT drugs from their precursor compounds. In fact, redox-dependent generation of the active form of drug from the &quot;pro-form&quot; distinguishes this therapeutic approach from traditional EPs such as curcumin, and results in a decrease in clinical side effects at therapeutic concentrations, e.g., lack of reaction with other thiols such as glutathione (GSH), which can result in lowering GSH and inducing oxidative stress in normal cells. We consider this pro-drug quality of PED/PAT compounds to be a key factor for generating drugs to be used to combat neurodegenerative diseases that will be clinically tolerated. Given the contribution of oxidative stress to the pathology of multiple neurodegenerative diseases, the Keap1/Nrf2/ARE pathway represents a promising drug target for these PED/PAT agents.


The global burden of headache is very large, but knowledge of it is far from complete and needs still to be gathered. Published population-based studies have used variable methodology, which has influenced findings and made comparisons difficult. The Global Campaign against Headache is undertaking initiatives to improve and standardize methods in use for cross-sectional studies. One requirement is for a survey instrument with proven cross-cultural validity. This report describes the development of such an instrument. Two of the authors developed the initial version, which was used with adaptations in population-based studies in China, Ethiopia, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Zambia and 10 countries in the European Union. The resultant evolution of this instrument was reviewed by an expert consensus group drawn from all world regions. The final output was the Headache-Attributed Restriction, Disability, Social Handicap and Impaired Participation (HARDSHIP) questionnaire, designed for application by trained lay interviewers. HARDSHIP is a modular instrument incorporating demographic enquiry, diagnostic questions based on ICHD-3 beta criteria, and enquiries into each of the following as components of headache-attributed burden: symptom burden; health-care utilization; disability and productive time losses; impact on education, career and earnings; perception of control; interictal burden; overall individual burden; effects on relationships and family dynamics; effects on others, including household partner and children; quality of life; wellbeing; obesity as a comorbidity. HARDSHIP already has demonstrated validity and acceptability in multiple languages and cultures. Modules may be included or not, and others (eg, on additional comorbidities) added, according to the purpose of the study and resources (especially time) available.
Several network patterns allow for information exchange between the neocortex and the entorhinal-hippocampal complex, including theta oscillations and sleep spindles. How neurons are organized in these respective patterns is not well understood. We examined the cellular-synaptic generation of sleep spindles and theta oscillations in the waking rat and during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep by simultaneously recording local field and spikes in the regions and layers of the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex (EC). We show the following: (1) current source density analysis reveals that similar anatomical substrates underlie spindles and theta in the hippocampus, although the hippocampal subregions are more synchronized during spindles than theta; (2) the spiking of putative principal cells and interneurons in the CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus subregions of the hippocampus, as well as layers 2, 3, and 5 of medial EC, are significantly phase locked to spindles detected in CA1; (3) the relationship between local field potential (LFP) phase and unit spiking differs between spindles and theta; (4) individual hippocampal principal cells generally do not fire in a rhythmic manner during spindles; (5) power in gamma (30-90 Hz) and epsilon (&gt;90 Hz) bands of hippocampal LFP is modulated by the phase of spindle oscillations; and (6) unit firing rates during spindles were not significantly affected by whether spindles occurred during non-REM or transitions between non-REM and REM sleep. Thus, despite the similar current generator inputs and macroscopic appearance of the LFP, the organization of neuronal firing patterns during spindles bears little resemblance to that of theta oscillations.
Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) receive glutamatergic input from bipolar cells through NMDA- and AMPA-type glutamate receptors. Both GluA2-containing, Ca(2+)-impermeable AMPA receptors (CI-AMPARs) and GluA2-lacking, Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) contribute to light-evoked responses in ON RGCs; however, specific roles for each subtype are not well understood. Here, we present evidence that light intensity determines the subtype of AMPAR that is activated during the synaptic response in ON RGCs. Using current voltage analysis of the EPSC we show that light intensities near RGC threshold, intensities that travel through the well described primary rod pathway, evoke synaptic currents that are preferentially mediated by CP-AMPARs. Synaptic responses evoked by spontaneous release of transmitter from bipolar cell terminals also preferentially activate CP-AMPARs. Conversely, higher light intensities, most likely carried by secondary rod pathways, activate CI-AMPARs. The same pattern of CP-AMPAR and CI-AMPAR activation was observed in mice containing only functional rods, suggesting that the recruitment of CI-AMPARs at higher light intensity does not require cone stimulation. When glutamate spillover was induced by blocking transporters with TBOA, both the near threshold and spontaneous EPSCs contained a significant CI-AMPAR component. We propose that CI-AMPARs are activated by &quot;spillover&quot; of synaptic glutamate only during bright illumination, or when glutamate uptake is blocked. Glutamate may spill over to more distant sites at the same synapse, or perhaps as far as neighboring synapses. Together, our data suggest that the spatial organization of AMPARs at ON RGCs synapses allows for selective, intensity-dependent activation of AMPARs with distinct subunit composition.
Axons of the mammalian CNS lose the ability to regenerate soon after development due to both an inhibitory CNS environment and the loss of cell-intrinsic factors necessary for regeneration. The complex molecular events required for robust regeneration of mature neurons are not fully understood, particularly in vivo. To identify genes affecting axon regeneration in Caenorhabditis elegans, we performed both an RNAi-based screen for defective motor axon regeneration in unc-70/-spectrin mutants and a candidate gene screen. From these screens, we identified at least 50 conserved genes with growth-promoting or growth-inhibiting functions. Through our analysis of mutants, we shed new light on certain aspects of regeneration, including the role of -spectrin and membrane dynamics, the antagonistic activity of MAP kinase signaling pathways, and the role of stress in promoting axon regeneration. Many gene candidates had not previously been associated with axon regeneration and implicate new pathways of interest for therapeutic intervention.
Neto1 and Neto2 auxiliary subunits coassemble with NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and kainate receptors (KARs) to modulate their function. In the hippocampus, Neto1 enhances the amplitude and prolongs the kinetics of KAR-mediated currents at mossy fiber (MF)-CA3 pyramidal cell synapses. However, whether Neto1 trafficks KARs to synapses or simply alters channel properties is unresolved. Therefore, postembedding electron microscopy was performed to investigate the localization of GluK2/3 subunits at MF-CA3 synapses in Neto-null mice. Postsynaptic GluK2/3 Immunogold labeling was substantially reduced in Neto-null mice compared with wild types. Moreover, spontaneous KAR-mediated synaptic currents and metabotropic KAR signaling were absent in CA3 pyramidal cells of Neto-null mice. A similar loss of ionotropic and metabotropic KAR function was observed in Neto1, but not Neto2, single knock-out mice, specifically implicating Neto1 in regulating CA3 pyramidal cell KAR localization and function. Additional controversy pertains to the role of Neto proteins in modulating synaptic NMDARs. While Immunogold labeling for GluN2A at MF-CA3 synapses was comparable between wild-type and Neto-null mice, labeling for postsynaptic GluN2B was robustly increased in Neto-null mice. Accordingly, NMDAR-mediated currents at MF-CA3 synapses exhibited increased sensitivity to a GluN2B-selective antagonist in Neto1 knockouts relative to wild types. Thus, despite preservation of the overall MF-CA3 synaptic NMDAR-mediated current, loss of Neto1 alters NMDAR subunit composition. These results confirm that Neto protein interactions regulate synaptic localization of KAR and NMDAR subunits at MF-CA3 synapses, with implications for both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamatergic recruitment of the CA3 network.
Using environmental cues for the prediction of future events is essential for survival. Such cue-outcome associations are thought to depend on mesolimbic circuitry involving the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Several studies have identified roles for both NAc and PFC in the expression of stable goal-directed behaviors, but much remains unknown about their roles during learning of such behaviors. To further address this question, we used in vivo oxygen amperometry, a proxy for blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal measurement in human functional magnetic resonance imaging, in rats performing a cued lever-pressing task requiring discrimination between a rewarded and nonrewarded cue. Simultaneous oxygen recordings were obtained from infralimbic PFC (IFC) and NAc throughout both acquisition and extinction of this task. Activation of NAc was specifically observed following rewarded cue onset during the entire acquisition phase and also during the first days of extinction. In contrast, IFC activated only during the earliest periods of acquisition and extinction, more specifically to the nonrewarded cue. Thus, in vivo oxygen amperometry permits a novel, stable form of longitudinal analysis of brain activity in behaving animals, allowing dissociation of the roles of different brain regions over time during learning of reward-driven instrumental action. The present results offer a unique temporal perspective on how NAc may promote actions directed toward anticipated positive outcome throughout learning, while IFC might suppress actions that no longer result in reward, but only during critical periods of learning.
Actions can be understood based on form cues (e.g., static body posture) as well as motion cues (e.g., gait patterns). A fundamental debate centers on the question of whether the functional and neural mechanisms processing these two types of cues are dissociable. Here, using fMRI, psychophysics, and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), all within the same human participants, we show that mechanisms underlying body form and body motion processing are functionally and neurally distinct. Multivoxel fMRI activity patterns in the extrastriate body area (EBA), but not in the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS), carried cue invariant information about the body form of an acting human. Conversely, multivoxel patterns in pSTS, but not in EBA, carried information about the body motion of the same actor. In a psychophysical experiment, we selectively impaired body form and body motion discriminations by manipulating different visual cues: misaligning the ellipses that made up a dynamic walker stimulus selectively disrupted body form discriminations, while varying the presentation duration of the walker selectively affected body motion discriminations. Finally, a TMS experiment revealed causal evidence for a double-dissociation between neural mechanisms underlying body form and body motion discriminations: TMS over EBA selectively disrupted body form discrimination, whereas TMS over pSTS selectively disrupted body motion discrimination. Together, these findings reveal complementing but dissociable functions of EBA and pSTS during action perception. They provide constraints for theoretical and computational models of action perception by showing that action perception involves at least two parallel pathways that separately contribute to the understanding of others' behavior.
While dopamine affects fundamental brain processes such as movement control, emotional responses, addiction, and pain, the roles for this neurotransmitter in regulating wakefulness and sleep are incompletely understood. Genetically modified animal models with reduced dopamine clearance exhibit hypersensitivity to caffeine, reduced-responsiveness to modafinil, and increased homeostatic response to prolonged wakefulness when compared with wild-type animals. Here we studied sleep-wake regulation in humans and combined pharmacogenetic and neurophysiologic methods to analyze the effects of the 3'-UTR variable-number-tandem-repeat polymorphism of the gene (DAT1, SLC6A3) encoding dopamine transporter (DAT). Previous research demonstrated that healthy homozygous 10-repeat (10R/10R) allele carriers of this genetic variant have reduced striatal DAT protein expression when compared with 9-repeat (9R) allele carriers. Objective and subjective estimates of caffeine sensitivity were higher in 10R allele homozygotes than in carriers of the 9R allele. Moreover, caffeine and modafinil affected wakefulness-induced changes in functional bands (delta, sigma, beta) of rhythmic brain activity in wakefulness and sleep in a DAT1 genotype-dependent manner. Finally, the sleep deprivation-induced increase in well established neurophysiologic markers of sleep homeostasis, including slow-wave sleep, electroencephalographic slow-wave activity (0.5-4.5 Hz), and number of low-frequency (0.5-2.0 Hz) oscillations in non-rapid-eye-movement sleep, was significantly larger in the 10R/10R genotype than in the 9R allele carriers of DAT1. Together, the data suggest that the dopamine transporter contributes to homeostatic sleep-wake regulation in humans.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor, TrkB, are critical components of the neural circuitry controlling appetite and body weight. Diminished BDNF signaling in mice results in severe hyperphagia and obesity. In humans, BDNF haploinsufficiency and the functional Bdnf Val66Met polymorphism have been linked to elevated food intake and body weight. The mechanisms underlying this dysfunction are poorly defined. We demonstrate a chief role of 2-1, a calcium channel subunit and thrombospondin receptor, in triggering overeating in mice with central BDNF depletion. We show reduced 2-1 cell-surface expression in the BDNF mutant ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), an energy balance-regulating center. This deficit contributes to the hyperphagia exhibited by BDNF mutant mice because selective inhibition of 2-1 by gabapentin infusion into wild-type VMH significantly increases feeding and body weight gain. Importantly, viral-mediated 2-1 rescue in BDNF mutant VMH significantly mitigates their hyperphagia, obesity, and liver steatosis and normalizes deficits in glucose homeostasis. Whole-cell recordings in BDNF mutant VMH neurons revealed normal calcium currents but reduced frequency of EPSCs. These results suggest calcium channel-independent effects of 2-1 on feeding and implicate 2-1-thrombospondin interactions known to facilitate excitatory synapse assembly. Our findings identify a central mechanism mediating the inhibitory effects of BDNF on feeding. They also demonstrate a novel and critical role for 2-1 in appetite control and suggest a mechanism underlying weight gain in humans treated with gabapentinoid drugs.
The three-layered piriform cortex, an integral part of the olfactory system, processes odor information relayed by olfactory bulb mitral cells. Specifically, mitral cell axons form the lateral olfactory tract (LOT) by targeting lateral olfactory tract (lot) guidepost cells in the piriform cortex. While lot cells and other piriform cortical neurons share a pallial origin, the factors that specify their precise phenotypes are poorly understood. Here we show that in mouse, the proneural genes Neurog1 and Neurog2 are coexpressed in the ventral pallium, a progenitor pool that first gives rise to Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells, which populate layer I of all cortical domains, and later to layer II/III neurons of the piriform cortex. Using loss-of-function and gain-of-function approaches, we find that Neurog1 has a unique early role in reducing CR cell neurogenesis by tempering Neurog2's proneural activity. In addition, Neurog1 and Neurog2 have redundant functions in the ventral pallium, acting in two phases to first specify a CR cell fate and later to specify layer II/III piriform cortex neuronal identities. In the early phase, Neurog1 and Neurog2 are also required for lot cell differentiation, which we reveal are a subset of CR neurons, the loss of which prevents mitral cell axon innervation and LOT formation. Consequently, mutation of Trp73, a CR-specific cortical gene, results in lot cell and LOT axon displacement. Neurog1 and Neurog2 thus have unique and redundant functions in the piriform cortex, controlling the timing of differentiation of early-born CR/lot cells and specifying the identities of later-born layer II/III neurons.
The septohippocampal pathway contains cholinergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic projections and has an established role in learning, memory, and hippocampal theta rhythm. Both GABAergic and cholinergic neurons in the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca (MSDB) have been associated with spatial memory, but the relationship between the two neuronal populations is not fully understood. The present study investigated the effect of selective GABAergic MSDB lesions on hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) efflux and spatial memory during tasks that varied in memory demand. Male Sprague Dawley rats were given GABAergic lesions of the MSDB using GAT1-saporin (GAT1-SAP) and examined on spontaneous exploration (Experiment 1) and non-matching to position without (NMTP; Experiment 2) and with a delay (DNMTP; Experiment 3), while concurrently using in vivo microdialysis to measure hippocampal ACh efflux. Intraseptal GAT1-SAP treatment did not alter baseline or behaviorally stimulated hippocampal ACh efflux or maze exploration (Experiment 1). Moreover, GAT1-SAP did not alter evoked hippocampal ACh efflux related to NMTP nor did it impair working memory in NMTP (Experiment 2). In contrast, both ACh efflux and performance in DNMTP were impaired by intraseptal GAT1-SAP. Thus, GABAergic MSDB neurons are important for spatial working memory and modulate hippocampal ACh efflux under conditions of high memory load. The relationship between the septohippocampal cholinergic and GABAergic systems and working memory will be discussed.
Cross-frequency interactions between oscillations in local field potentials (LFPs) are thought to support communication between brain structures by temporally coordinating neural activity. It is unknown, however, whether such interactions differentiate between different levels of performance in decision-making tasks. Here, we investigated theta (4-12 Hz) to gamma (30-100 Hz) phase-amplitude coupling in LFP recordings from rat orbitofrontal cortex. Across subsequent periods of a task in which rats learned to discriminate two odors associated with positive and negative outcomes, theta-to-gamma phase-amplitude coupling (PAC) was highest during the odor-sampling task period that preceded a Go/NoGo decision. This task-dependent modulation could not be explained by changes in oscillatory power and appeared to be time-locked to odor onset, not to the timing of the behavioral response. We found that PAC strength during odor sampling correlated with learning, as indexed by improved performance across trials. Moreover, this increase in PAC magnitude was apparent only on trials with correct Go and NoGo decisions, but not incorrect Go decisions. In addition, we found that PAC preferred coupling phase showed consistency over sessions only for correct, but not incorrect trials. In conclusion, orbitofrontal cortex theta-gamma PAC strength differentiates between different levels of performance in an olfactory decision-making task and may play a role in the generation and utilization of stimulus-based outcome predictions, necessary for adaptive decision-making.
Duration-tuned neurons (DTNs) in the mammalian inferior colliculus (IC) arise from a combination of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs. Previous research has shown that the inhibition responsible for creating DTNs has a shorter latency than that of excitation and lasts longer than the stimulus duration. We used monotic and dichotic paired tone stimulation and recorded responses of DTNs from the IC of the bat to assess the relative contributions of each ear in forming duration-tuned circuits. The stimulus consisted of a short best duration (BD) excitatory tone and a longer duration nonexcitatory (NE) tone. In the monotic condition, when the BD and NE tones were presented to the contralateral ear and were sufficiently close in time, the NE tone always suppressed spikes evoked by the BD tone. In the dichotic condition, when the BD tone was presented to the contralateral ear and the NE tone to the ipsilateral ear, half of DTNs no longer showed spike suppression to the NE tone. Of those DTNs with suppression in both conditions, the latency of the inhibition was shorter and the duration of the inhibition was longer in the monotic condition. Therefore, in the monotic condition, DTNs received a contralaterally evoked inhibitory input that preceded the excitatory input to the same neuron. In the dichotic condition, DTNs received an ipsilaterally evoked inhibitory input that was weaker, longer in latency, and shorter in duration than the inputs from the contralateral ear. These findings indicate that the neural mechanisms that create DTNs in the IC are monaural.
The perirhinal cortex (PRC) is proposed to both represent high-order sensory information and maintain those representations across delays. These cognitive processes are required for recognition memory, which declines during normal aging. Whether or not advanced age affects the ability of PRC principal cells to support these dual roles, however, is not known. The current experiment recorded PRC neurons as young and aged rats traversed a track. When objects were placed on the track, a subset of the neurons became active at discrete locations adjacent to objects. Importantly, the aged rats had a lower proportion of neurons that were activated by objects. Once PRC activity patterns in the presence of objects were established, however, both age groups maintained these representations across delays up to 2 h. These data support the hypothesis that age-associated deficits in stimulus recognition arise from impairments in high-order stimulus representation rather than difficulty in sustaining stable activity patterns over time.
Partial injury to the corticospinal tract (CST) causes sprouting of intact axons at their targets, and this sprouting correlates with functional improvement. Electrical stimulation of motor cortex augments sprouting of intact CST axons and promotes functional recovery when applied soon after injury. We hypothesized that electrical stimulation of motor cortex in the intact hemisphere after chronic lesion of the CST in the other hemisphere would restore function through ipsilateral control. To test motor skill, rats were trained and tested to walk on a horizontal ladder with irregularly spaced rungs. Eight weeks after injury, produced by pyramidal tract transection, half of the rats received forelimb motor cortex stimulation of the intact hemisphere. Rats with injury and stimulation had significantly improved forelimb control compared with rats with injury alone and achieved a level of proficiency similar to uninjured rats. To test whether recovery of forelimb function was attributable to ipsilateral control, we selectively inactivated the stimulated motor cortex using the GABA agonist muscimol. The dose of muscimol we used produces strong contralateral but no ipsilateral impairments in naive rats. In rats with injury and stimulation, but not those with injury alone, inactivation caused worsening of forelimb function; the initial deficit was reinstated. These results demonstrate that electrical stimulation can promote recovery of motor function when applied late after injury and that motor control can be exerted from the ipsilateral motor cortex. These results suggest that the uninjured motor cortex could be targeted for brain stimulation in people with large unilateral CST lesions.
Understanding how dynamic changes in brain activity control behavior is a major challenge of cognitive neuroscience. Here, we consider the brain as a complex dynamic system and define two measures of brain dynamics: the synchrony of brain activity, measured by the spatial coherence of the BOLD signal across regions of the brain; and metastability, which we define as the extent to which synchrony varies over time. We investigate the relationship among brain network activity, metastability, and cognitive state in humans, testing the hypothesis that global metastability is &quot;tuned&quot; by network interactions. We study the following two conditions: (1) an attentionally demanding choice reaction time task (CRT); and (2) an unconstrained &quot;rest&quot; state. Functional MRI demonstrated increased synchrony, and decreased metastability was associated with increased activity within the frontoparietal control/dorsal attention network (FPCN/DAN) activity and decreased default mode network (DMN) activity during the CRT compared with rest. Using a computational model of neural dynamics that is constrained by white matter structure to test whether simulated changes in FPCN/DAN and DMN activity produce similar effects, we demonstate that activation of the FPCN/DAN increases global synchrony and decreases metastability. DMN activation had the opposite effects. These results suggest that the balance of activity in the FPCN/DAN and DMN might control global metastability, providing a mechanistic explanation of how attentional state is shifted between an unfocused/exploratory mode characterized by high metastability, and a focused/constrained mode characterized by low metastability.
By combining experimental neuron models and mathematical tools, we developed a &quot;systems&quot; approach to deconvolve cellular mechanisms of neurodegeneration underlying the most common known cause of Parkinson's disease (PD), mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2). Neurons ectopically expressing mutant LRRK2 formed inclusion bodies (IBs), retracted neurites, accumulated synuclein, and died prematurely, recapitulating key features of PD. Degeneration was predicted from the levels of diffuse mutant LRRK2 that each neuron contained, but IB formation was neither necessary nor sufficient for death. Genetic or pharmacological blockade of its kinase activity destabilized LRRK2 and lowered its levels enough to account for the moderate reduction in LRRK2 toxicity that ensued. By contrast, targeting synuclein, including neurons made from PD patient-derived induced pluripotent cells, dramatically reduced LRRK2-dependent neurodegeneration and LRRK2 levels. These findings suggest that LRRK2 levels are more important than kinase activity per se in predicting toxicity and implicate synuclein as a major mediator of LRRK2-induced neurodegeneration.
The sudden appearance of a novel stimulus in the environment initiates a series of orienting responses that include coordinated shifts of gaze and attention, and also transient changes in pupil size. Although numerous studies have identified a significant effect of stimulus saliency on shifts of gaze and attention, saliency effects on pupil size are less understood. To examine salience-evoked pupil responses, we presented visual, auditory, or audiovisual stimuli while monkeys fixated a central visual spot. Transient pupil dilation was elicited after visual stimulus presentation regardless of target luminance relative to background, and auditory stimuli also evoked similar pupil responses. Importantly, the evoked pupil response was modulated by contrast-based saliency, with faster and larger pupil responses following the presentation of more salient stimuli. The initial transient component of pupil dilation was qualitatively similar to that evoked by weak microstimulation of the midbrain superior colliculus. The pupil responses elicited by audiovisual stimuli were well predicted by a linear summation of each modality response. Together, the results suggest that the transient pupil response, as one component of orienting, is modulated by contrast-based saliency, and the superior colliculus is likely involved in its coordination.
The elongation rate of axons is tightly regulated during development. Recycling of the plasma membrane is known to regulate axon extension; however, the specific molecules involved in recycling within the growth cone have not been fully characterized. Here, we investigated whether the small GTPases Rab4 and Rab5 involved in short-loop recycling regulate the extension of Xenopus retinal axons. We report that, in growth cones, Rab5 and Rab4 proteins localize to endosomes, which accumulate markers that are constitutively recycled. Fluorescence recovery after photo-bleaching experiments showed that Rab5 and Rab4 are recruited to endosomes in the growth cone, suggesting that they control recycling locally. Dynamic image analysis revealed that Rab4-positive carriers can bud off from Rab5 endosomes and move to the periphery of the growth cone, suggesting that both Rab5 and Rab4 contribute to recycling within the growth cone. Inhibition of Rab4 function with dominant-negative Rab4 or Rab4 morpholino and constitutive activation of Rab5 decreases the elongation of retinal axons in vitro and in vivo, but, unexpectedly, does not disrupt axon pathfinding. Thus, Rab5- and Rab4-mediated control of endosome trafficking appears to be crucial for axon growth. Collectively, our results suggest that recycling from Rab5-positive endosomes via Rab4 occurs within the growth cone and thereby supports axon elongation.
Ongoing neuronal activity in the CNS waxes and wanes continuously across widespread spatial and temporal scales. In the human brain, these spontaneous fluctuations are salient in blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals and correlated within specific brain systems or &quot;intrinsic-connectivity networks.&quot; In electrophysiological recordings, both the amplitude dynamics of fast (1-100 Hz) oscillations and the scalp potentials per se exhibit fluctuations in the same infra-slow (0.01-0.1 Hz) frequency range where the BOLD fluctuations are conspicuous. While several lines of evidence show that the BOLD fluctuations are correlated with fast-amplitude dynamics, it has remained unclear whether the infra-slow scalp potential fluctuations in full-band electroencephalography (fbEEG) are related to the resting-state BOLD signals. We used concurrent fbEEG and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) recordings to address the relationship of infra-slow fluctuations (ISFs) in scalp potentials and BOLD signals. We show here that independent components of fbEEG recordings are selectively correlated with subsets of cortical BOLD signals in specific task-positive and task-negative, fMRI-defined resting-state networks. This brain system-specific association indicates that infra-slow scalp potentials are directly associated with the endogenous fluctuations in neuronal activity levels. fbEEG thus yields a noninvasive, high-temporal resolution window into the dynamics of intrinsic connectivity networks. These results support the view that the slow potentials reflect changes in cortical excitability and shed light on neuronal substrates underlying both electrophysiological and behavioral ISFs.

Structural plasticity in the adult brain is essential for adaptive behavior. We have found a remarkable anatomical plasticity in the basal ganglia of adult mice that is regulated by dopamine D2 receptors (D2Rs). By modulating neuronal excitability, striatal D2Rs bidirectionally control the density of direct pathway collaterals in the globus pallidus that bridge the direct pathway with the functionally opposing indirect pathway. An increase in bridging collaterals is associated with enhanced inhibition of pallidal neurons in vivo and disrupted locomotor activation after optogenetic stimulation of the direct pathway. Chronic blockade with haloperidol, an antipsychotic medication used to treat schizophrenia, decreases the extent of bridging collaterals and rescues the locomotor imbalance. These findings identify a role for bridging collaterals in regulating the concerted balance of striatal output and may have important implications for understanding schizophrenia, a disease involving excessive activation of striatal D2Rs that is treated with D2R blockers.
The propagation of visual signals from individual cone photoreceptors through parallel neural circuits was examined in the primate retina. Targeted stimulation of individual cones was combined with simultaneous recording from multiple retinal ganglion cells of identified types. The visual signal initiated by an individual cone produced strong responses with different kinetics in three of the four numerically dominant ganglion cell types. The magnitude and kinetics of light responses in each ganglion cell varied nonlinearly with stimulus strength but in a manner that was independent of the cone of origin after accounting for the overall input strength of each cone. Based on this property of independence, the receptive field profile of an individual ganglion cell could be well estimated from responses to stimulation of each cone individually. Together, these findings provide a quantitative account of how elementary visual inputs form the ganglion cell receptive field.
Inhibitory microcircuits are wired with a precision that underlies their complex regulatory roles in neural information processing. In the spinal cord, one specialized class of GABAergic interneurons (GABApre) mediates presynaptic inhibitory control of sensory-motor synapses. The synaptic targeting of these GABAergic neurons exhibits an absolute dependence on proprioceptive sensory terminals, yet the molecular underpinnings of this specialized axoaxonic organization remain unclear. Here, we show that sensory expression of an NB2 (Contactin5)/Caspr4 coreceptor complex, together with spinal interneuron expression of NrCAM/CHL1, directs the high-density accumulation of GABAergic boutons on sensory terminals. Moreover, genetic elimination of NB2 results in a disproportionate stripping of inhibitory boutons from high-density GABApre-sensory synapses, suggesting that the preterminal axons of GABApre neurons compete for access to individual sensory terminals. Our findings define a recognition complex that contributes to the assembly and organization of a specialized GABAergic microcircuit.
Female eutherian mammals use X chromosome inactivation (XCI) to epigenetically regulate gene expression from 4% of the genome. To quantitatively map the topography of XCI for defined cell types at single cell resolution, we have generated female mice that carry X-linked, Cre-activated, and nuclear-localized fluorescent reporters--GFP on one X chromosome and tdTomato on the other. Using these reporters in combination with different Cre drivers, we have defined the topographies of XCI mosaicism for multiple CNS cell types and of retinal vascular dysfunction in a model of Norrie disease. Depending on cell type, fluctuations in the XCI mosaic are observed over a wide range of spatial scales, from neighboring cells to left versus right sides of the body. These data imply a major role for XCI in generating female-specific, genetically directed, stochastic diversity in eutherian mammals on spatial scales that would be predicted to affect CNS function within and between individuals.
Voltage-gated ion channels exhibit complex properties, which can be targeted in pharmacological therapies for disease. Here, we report that the pro-oxidant, tert-butyl dihydroquinone (BHQ), modulates Ca(v)2.1 Ca channels in ways that oppose defects in channel gating and synaptic transmission resulting from a familial hemiplegic migraine mutation (S218L). BHQ slows deactivation, inhibits voltage-dependent activation, and potentiates Ca-dependent facilitation of Ca(v)2.1 channels in transfected HEK293T cells. These actions of BHQ help offset the gain of function and reduced Ca-dependent facilitation of Ca(v)2.1 channels with the S218L mutation. Transgenic expression of the mutant channels at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction causes abnormally elevated evoked postsynaptic potentials and impaired synaptic plasticity, which are largely restored to the wild-type phenotypes by BHQ. Our results reveal a mechanism by which a Ca(v)2.1 gating modifier can ameliorate defects associated with a disease-causing mutation in Ca(v)2.1.
Tourette syndrome (TS) is characterized by tics, sensorimotor gating deficiencies, and abnormalities of cortico-basal ganglia circuits. A mutation in histidine decarboxylase (Hdc), the key enzyme for the biosynthesis of histamine (HA), has been implicated as a rare genetic cause. Hdc knockout mice exhibited potentiated tic-like stereotypies, recapitulating core phenomenology of TS; these were mitigated by the dopamine (DA) D2 antagonist haloperidol, a proven pharmacotherapy, and by HA infusion into the brain. Prepulse inhibition was impaired in both mice and humans carrying Hdc mutations. HA infusion reduced striatal DA levels; in Hdc knockout mice, striatal DA was increased and the DA-regulated immediate early gene Fos was upregulated. DA D2/D3 receptor binding was altered both in mice and in humans carrying the Hdc mutation. These data confirm histidine decarboxylase deficiency as a rare cause of TS and identify HA-DA interactions in the basal ganglia as an important locus of pathology.
Although biotherapeutics have vast potential for treating brain disorders, their use has been limited due to low exposure across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). We report that by manipulating the binding mode of an antibody fragment to the transferrin receptor (TfR), we have developed a Brain Shuttle module, which can be engineered into a standard therapeutic antibody for successful BBB transcytosis. Brain Shuttle version of an anti-A antibody, which uses a monovalent binding mode to the TfR, increases -Amyloid target engagement in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease by 55-fold compared to the parent antibody. We provide in vitro and in vivo evidence that the monovalent binding mode facilitates transcellular transport, whereas a bivalent binding mode leads to lysosome sorting. Enhanced target engagement of the Brain Shuttle module translates into a significant improvement in amyloid reduction. These findings have major implications for the development of biologics-based treatment of brain disorders.
Successful graduate training benefits from committed mentors and motivated students. Because scientific research involves investigating unexplored territory, however, each student's experience will necessarily be unique, making it rarely possible to conform to an idealized training sequence. To approach this inherently uncontrolled situation constructively, students are encouraged, first, to become aware of their own learning patterns and to apply this knowledge to selecting a thesis laboratory, and second, to cultivate an educational philosophy that helps them adapt to many circumstances.
In this issue of Neuron, Guo etal. (2014) optogenetically probe contributions of different cortical regions totactile sensory perception, finding that somatosensory cortex is necessary for acquisition of sensory information and frontal cortex is necessary for planning motor output.
Censor etal. (2014) combine behavioral, TMS, and neuroimaging to identify task-free neural signatures that relate to modification of motor memories. Modulation of memories using TMS may provide a powerful approach to improve human brain function in neurorehabilitation and cognitive neuroscience.
Molecular &quot;hitchhiking&quot; through receptor-mediated transcytosis at the blood-brain barrier is a CNS drug delivery strategy. In this issue of Neuron, Niewoehner etal. (2014) describe a modular anti-transferrin receptor Fab approach for shuttling therapeutic antibodies into the brain.
Layer 5 pyramidal neurons comprise at least two subtypes: thick-tufted, subcortically projecting type A neurons, with prominent h-current, and thin-tufted, callosally projecting type B neurons, which lack prominent h-current. Using optogenetic stimulation, we find that these subtypes receive distinct forms of input that could subserve divergent functions. Repeatedly stimulating callosal inputs evokes progressively smaller excitatory responses in type B but not type A neurons. Callosal inputs also elicit more spikes in type A neurons. Surprisingly, these effects arise via distinct mechanisms. Differences in the dynamics of excitatory responses seem to reflect differences in presynaptic input, whereas differences in spiking depend on postsynaptic mechanisms. We also find that fast-spiking parvalbumin interneurons, but not somatostatin interneurons, preferentially inhibit type A neurons, leading to greater feedforward inhibition in this subtype. These differences may enable type A neurons to detect salient inputs that are focused in space and time, while type B neurons integrate across these dimensions.
Our choice is influenced by choices we made in the past, but the mechanism responsible for the choice bias remains elusive. Here we show that the history-dependent choice bias can be explained by an autonomous learning rule whereby an estimate of the likelihood of a choice to be made is updated in each trial by comparing between the actual and expected choices. We found that in perceptual decision making without performance feedback, a decision on an ambiguous stimulus is repeated on the subsequent trial more often than a decision on a salient stimulus. This inertia of decision was not accounted for by biases in motor response, sensory processing, or attention. The posterior cingulate cortex and frontal eye field represent choice prediction error and choice estimate in the learning algorithm, respectively. Interactions between the two regions during the intertrial interval are associated with decision inertia on a subsequent trial.
The maintenance of goal-directed behavior relies upon a cascade of covert mental actions including motor imagery and planning. Here we investigated how cues imbued with motivational salience can invigorate motor imagery networks preceding action. We adapted the Pavlovian-to-instrumental (PIT) paradigm to explore this by substituting motor action with motor imagery. Thus, reward was contingent upon a given level of imagery-induced neural activity using real-time fMRI. We found that the concomitant presentation of reward-related cues during motor imagery not only enhanced neural responses in motivational centers (ventral striatum and extended amygdala) but also exerted a motivational effect in the imagery network itself. Moreover, functional connectivity between ventral striatum (but not extended amygdala) and motor cortex was heightened during imagery in the presence of the reward-related cue. The concurrent activation of &quot;value&quot; and &quot;action&quot; networks may illuminate the neural process that links motivational cues to desires and urges to obtain goals.
Presurgical mapping in a pediatric patient diagnosed with arteriovenous malformation in the left hemisphere revealed a case of apparent functional reorganization of a white matter tract. Magnetoencephalography (MEG) was used to identify the motor fields following hand movement. As expected, motor field activity for the left hand was detected in the right hemisphere. Surprisingly, MEG activity was also detected in the right hemisphere following movement of the right hand. MEG activations served as seeds from which to launch diffusion tensor imaging tractography to delineate the corticospinal tracts (CSTs). Using the MEG activation for movement of the right hand, we delineated a tract in the right hemisphere. A tract corresponding to motor function for the left hand was also delineated in the right hemisphere. For comparison, the CSTs of the patient were launched from anatomical landmarks at the precentral gyrus, and were successfully delineated in each hemisphere. Our findings suggest that the functional delineation of white matter pathways may be more sensitive than anatomical delineation for identifying reorganization of the developing brain in response to a lesion. This study is, to our knowledge, the first description of a functional reorganization of an existing tract to serve as a CST in children.






Y-receptors control energy homeostasis, but the role of Npy6 receptors (Npy6r) is largely unknown. Young Npy6r-deficient (Npy6r(-/-)) mice have reduced body weight, lean mass, and adiposity, while older and high-fat-fed Npy6r(-/-) mice have low lean mass with increased adiposity. Npy6r(-/-) mice showed reduced hypothalamic growth hormone releasing hormone (Ghrh) expression and serum insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels relative to WT. This is likely due to impaired vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) signaling in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), where we found Npy6r coexpressed in VIP neurons. Peripheral administration of pancreatic polypeptide (PP) increased Fos expression in the SCN, increased energy expenditure, and reduced food intake in WT, but not Npy6r(-/-), mice. Moreover, intraperitoneal (i.p.) PP injection increased hypothalamic Ghrh mRNA expression and serum IGF-1 levels in WT, but not Npy6r(-/-), mice, an effect blocked by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide (VPAC) receptors antagonism. Thus, PP-initiated signaling through Npy6r in VIP neurons regulates the growth hormone axis and body composition.
Functional brain imaging studies show that in certain brain regions glucose utilization exceeds oxygen consumption, indicating the predominance of aerobic glycolysis. In this issue, Goyal et al. (2014) report that this metabolic profile is associated with an enrichment in the expression of genes involved in synaptic plasticity and remodeling processes.

Practicing a musical instrument is associated with cognitive benefits and structural brain changes in correlational and interventional trials; however, the effect of musical training on cognition during childhood is still unclear. In this longitudinal study of child development we analyzed the association between musical practice and performance on reasoning, processing speed and working memory (WM) during development. Subjects (n = 352) between the ages of 6 and 25 years participated in neuropsychological assessments and neuroimaging investigations (n = 64) on two or three occasions, 2 years apart. Mixed model regression showed that musical practice had an overall positive association with WM capacity (visuo-spatial WM, F = 4.59, p = 0.033, verbal WM, F = 9.69, p = 0.002), processing speed, (F = 4.91, p = 0.027) and reasoning (Raven's progressive matrices, F = 28.34, p &lt; 0.001) across all three time points, after correcting for the effect of parental education and other after school activities. Music players also had larger gray matter volume in the temporo-occipital and insular cortex (p = 0.008), areas previously reported to be related to musical notation reading. The change in WM between the time points was proportional to the weekly hours spent on music practice for both WM tests (VSWM,  = 0.351, p = 0.003, verbal WM,  = 0.261, p = 0.006) but this was not significant for reasoning ability ( = 0.021, p = 0.090). These effects remained when controlling for parental education and other after school activities. In conclusion, these results indicate that music practice positively affects WM development and support the importance of practice for the development of WM during childhood and adolescence.
A central question in brain evolution is how species-typical behaviors, and the neural function-structure mappings supporting them, can be acquired and inherited. Advocates of brain modularity, in its different incarnations across scientific subfields, argue that natural selection must target domain-dedicated, separately modifiable neural subsystems, resulting in genetically-specified functional modules. In such modular systems, specification of neuron number and functional connectivity are necessarily linked. Mounting evidence, however, from allometric, developmental, comparative, systems-physiological, neuroimaging and neurological studies suggests that brain elements are used and reused in multiple functional systems. This variable allocation can be seen in short-term neuromodulation, in neuroplasticity over the lifespan and in response to damage. We argue that the same processes are evident in brain evolution. Natural selection must preserve behavioral functions that may co-locate in variable amounts with other functions. In genetics, the uses and problems of pleiotropy, the re-use of genes in multiple networks have been much discussed, but this issue has been sidestepped in neural systems by the invocation of modules. Here we highlight the interaction between evolutionary and developmental mechanisms to produce distributed and overlapping functional architectures in the brain. These adaptive mechanisms must be robust to perturbations that might disrupt critical information processing and action selection, but must also recognize useful new sources of information arising from internal genetic or environmental variability, when those appear. These contrasting properties of &quot;robustness&quot; and &quot;evolvability&quot; have been discussed for the basic organization of body plan and fundamental cell physiology. Here we extend them to the evolution and development, &quot;evo-devo,&quot; of brain structure.
In many neurodegenerative disorders, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), synaptic alterations precede the demise of the neuronal cell, making synapses a useful vantage point from which to monitor the onset and progression of clinical signs and pathological changes. While murine models of ALS display many features in common with the clinical picture observed in patients, corticospinal tract (CST) involvement is usually less severe in mice than the picture observed in humans. In this paper we describe the characterization of a new conditional transgenic line obtained by targeted integration of a GFP-VAMP2 fusion gene into the Rosa26 locus, and devised to permit the detection of genetically defined presynaptic terminals in wild type mice and murine models of neural disorders. This reporter molecule is selectively enriched in presynaptic boutons, significantly reducing the background signal produced by fibers of passage. The specific features of this reporter line allow us to strongly support the view that murine CST terminals give rise to very few direct contacts with spinal motor neurons. Moreover, the evidence described here reveals the existence of previously uncharacterized, putative direct connections between CST presynaptic boutons and Renshaw neurons in the spinal cord. These results constitute a proof of concept for the potential application of this indicator line to morphological analyses of wild type and diseased synapses.
Neurophysiological changes resulting from traumatic brain injury (TBI) can result in adverse changes in behavior including mood instability and cognitive dysfunction. Cell death following TBI likely contributes to these altered behaviors and remains an elusive but attractive target for therapies aiming at functional recovery. Previously we demonstrated that neural progenitor cells derived from embryonic rats can be transplanted into donor neonatal rat brain slices and, over the course of 2weeks in culture, mature into neurons that express neuronal immunohistochemical markers and develop electrophysiological profiles consistent with excitatory and inhibitory interneurons. Here we examine the potential of generating electrophysiologically mature neurons with a layer-specific phenotype as a next step in developing a therapy designed to rebuild a damaged cortical column with the functionally appropriate neuronal subtypes. Preliminary results suggest that neurons derived from passaged neurospheres and grown in dissociated cell culture develop GABAergic and presumed glutamatergic phenotypes and that the percentage of GABAergic cells increases as a function of passage. After 2weeks in culture, the neurons have a mix of immature and mature neuronal electrophysiological profiles and receive synaptic inputs from surrounding neurons. Subsets of cells expressing neuron specific markers also express layer-specific markers such as Cux1, ER81, and ROR. Future studies will investigate the potential of transplanting layer-specific neurons generated and isolated in vitro into the neocortex of neonatal brain slices and their potential to maintain their phenotype and integrate into the host tissue.

We often make decisions with uncertain consequences. The outcomes of the choices we make are usually not perfectly predictable but probabilistic, and the probabilities can be known or unknown. Probability judgments, i.e., the assessment of unknown probabilities, can be influenced by evoked emotional states. This suggests that also the weighting of known probabilities in decision making under risk might be influenced by incidental emotions, i.e., emotions unrelated to the judgments and decisions at issue. Probability weighting describes the transformation of probabilities into subjective decision weights for outcomes and is one of the central components of cumulative prospect theory (CPT) that determine risk attitudes. We hypothesized that music-evoked emotions would modulate risk attitudes in the gain domain and in particular probability weighting. Our experiment featured a within-subject design consisting of four conditions in separate sessions. In each condition, the 41 participants listened to a different kind of music-happy, sad, or no music, or sequences of random tones-and performed a repeated pairwise lottery choice task. We found that participants chose the riskier lotteries significantly more often in the &quot;happy&quot; than in the &quot;sad&quot; and &quot;random tones&quot; conditions. Via structural regressions based on CPT, we found that the observed changes in participants' choices can be attributed to changes in the elevation parameter of the probability weighting function: in the &quot;happy&quot; condition, participants showed significantly higher decision weights associated with the larger payoffs than in the &quot;sad&quot; and &quot;random tones&quot; conditions. Moreover, elevation correlated positively with self-reported music-evoked happiness. Thus, our experimental results provide evidence in favor of a causal effect of incidental happiness on risk attitudes that can be explained by changes in probability weighting.










Three deep-pore locations, L312, A313, and A316, were identified in a scanning mutagenesis study of the BK (Ca(2+)-activated, large-conductance K(+)) channel S6 pore, where single aspartate substitutions led to constitutively open mutant channels (L312D, A313D, and A316D). To understand the mechanisms of the constitutive openness of these mutant channels, we individually mutated these three sites into the other 18 amino acids. We found that charged or polar side-chain substitutions at each of the sites resulted in constitutively open mutant BK channels, with high open probability at negative voltages, as well as a loss of voltage and Ca(2+) dependence. Given the fact that multiple pore residues in BK displayed side-chain hydrophilicity-dependent constitutive openness, we propose that BK channel opening involves structural rearrangement of the deep-pore region, where multiple residues undergo conformational changes that may increase the exposure of their side chains to the polar environment of the pore.
Ghrelin is a peptide mainly produced by the stomach and released into circulation, affecting energy balance and growth hormone release. These effects are guided largely by the expression of the ghrelin receptor growth hormone secretagogue type 1a (GHS-R1a) in the hypothalamus and pituitary. However, GHS-R1a is expressed in other brain regions, including the hippocampus, where its activation enhances memory retention. Herein we explore the molecular mechanism underlying the action of ghrelin on hippocampal-dependent memory. Our data show that GHS-R1a is localized in the vicinity of hippocampal excitatory synapses, and that its activation increases delivery of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic-type receptors (AMPARs) to synapses, producing functional modifications at excitatory synapses. Moreover, GHS-R1a activation enhances two different paradigms of long-term potentiation in the hippocampus, activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, and increases GluA1 AMPAR subunit and stargazin phosphorylation. We propose that GHS-R1a activation in the hippocampus enhances excitatory synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity by regulating AMPAR trafficking. Our study provides insights into mechanisms that may mediate the cognition-enhancing effect of ghrelin, and suggests a possible link between the regulation of energy metabolism and learning.
Adult-born granule cells in the dentate gyrus of the rodent hippocampus are important for memory formation and mood regulation, but the cellular mechanism underlying their polarized development, a process critical for their incorporation into functional circuits, remains unknown. We found that deletion of the serine-threonine protein kinase LKB1 or overexpression of dominant-negative LKB1 reduced the polarized initiation of the primary dendrite from the soma and disrupted its oriented growth toward the molecular layer. This abnormality correlated with the dispersion of Golgi apparatus that normally accumulated at the base and within the initial segment of the primary dendrite, and was mimicked by disrupting Golgi organization via altering the expression of Golgi structural proteins GM130 or GRASP65. Thus, besides its known function in axon formation in embryonic pyramidal neurons, LKB1 plays an additional role in regulating polarized dendrite morphogenesis in adult-born granule cells in the hippocampus.
Perception of time interval on the order of seconds is an essential component of cognition, but the underlying neural mechanism remains largely unknown. In rats trained to estimate time intervals, we found that many neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) exhibited sustained spiking activity with diverse temporal profiles of firing-rate modulation during the time-estimation period. Interestingly, in tasks involving different intervals, each neuron exhibited firing-rate modulation with the same profile that was temporally scaled by a factor linearly proportional to the instructed intervals. The behavioral variability across trials within each task also correlated with the intertrial variability of the temporal scaling factor. Local cooling of the medial PFC, which affects neural circuit dynamics, significantly delayed behavioral responses. Thus, PFC neuronal activity contributes to time perception, and temporally scalable firing-rate modulation may reflect a general mechanism for neural representation of interval timing.
Striatal projection neurons comprise two populations of striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons. These two neuronal populations play distinct roles in controlling movement-related functions in the basal ganglia circuits. An important issue is how striatal progenitors are developmentally specified into these two distinct neuronal populations. In the present study, we characterized the function of Islet-1 (Isl1), a LIM-homeodomain transcription factor, in striatal development. Genetic fate mapping showed that Isl1(+) progeny specifically developed into a subpopulation of striatonigral neurons that transiently expressed Isl1. In Nestin-Cre;Isl1(f/f) KO mouse brain, differentiation of striatonigral neurons was defective, as evidenced by decreased expression of striatonigral-enriched genes, including substance P, prodynorphin, solute carrier family 35, member D3 (Slc35d3), and PlexinD1. Striatonigral axonal projections were also impaired, and abnormal apoptosis was observed in Isl1 KO striatum. It was of particular interest that striatopallidal-enriched genes, including dopamine D2 receptor (Drd2), proenkephalin, A2A adenosine receptor (A2aR) and G protein-coupled receptor 6 (Gpr6), were concomitantly up-regulated in Isl1 mutant striatum, suggesting derepression of striatopallidal genes in striatonigral neurons in the absence of Isl1. The suppression of striatopallidal genes by Isl1 was further examined by overexpression of Isl1 in the striatum of Drd2-EGFP transgenic mice using in utero electroporation. Ectopic Isl1 expression was sufficient to repress Drd2-EGFP signals in striatopallidal neurons. Taken together, our study suggests that Isl1 specifies the cell fate of striatonigral neurons not only by orchestrating survival, differentiation, and axonal projections of striatonigral neurons but also by suppressing striatopallidal-enriched genes. The dual action of developmental control by Isl1 in promoting appropriate striatonigral but repressing inappropriate striatopallidal genetic profiles may ensure sharpening of the striatonigral identity during development.
Fast sensory processing is vital for the animal to efficiently respond to the changing environment. This is usually achieved when the animal is vigilant, as reflected by cortical desynchronization. However, the neural substrate for such fast processing remains unclear. Here, we report that neurons in rat primary visual cortex (V1) exhibited shorter response latency in the desynchronized state than in the synchronized state. In vivo whole-cell recording from the same V1 neurons undergoing the two states showed that both the resting and visually evoked conductances were higher in the desynchronized state. Such conductance increases of single V1 neurons shorten the response latency by elevating the membrane potential closer to the firing threshold and reducing the membrane time constant, but the effects only account for a small fraction of the observed latency advance. Simultaneous recordings in lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and V1 revealed that LGN neurons also exhibited latency advance, with a degree smaller than that of V1 neurons. Furthermore, latency advance in V1 increased across successive cortical layers. Thus, latency advance accumulates along various stages of the visual pathway, likely due to a global increase of membrane conductance in the desynchronized state. This cumulative effect may lead to a dramatic shortening of response latency for neurons in higher visual cortex and play a critical role in fast processing for vigilant animals.
Brain mapping experiments involving electrical microstimulation indicate that the primary motor cortex (M1) directly regulates muscle contraction and thereby controls specific movements. Possibly, M1 contains a small circuit &quot;map&quot; of the body that is formed by discrete local networks that code for specific movements. Alternatively, movements may be controlled by distributed, larger-scale overlapping circuits. Because of technical limitations, it remained unclear how movement-determining circuits are organized in M1. Here we introduce a method that allows the functional mapping of small local neuronal circuits in awake behaving nonhuman primates. For this purpose, we combined optic-fiber-based calcium recordings of neuronal activity and cortical microstimulation. The method requires targeted bulk loading of synthetic calcium indicators (e.g., OGB-1 AM) for the staining of neuronal microdomains. The tip of a thin (200 m) optical fiber can detect the coherent activity of a small cluster of neurons, but is insensitive to the asynchronous activity of individual cells. By combining such optical recordings with microstimulation at two well-separated sites of M1, we demonstrate that local cortical activity was tightly associated with distinct and stereotypical simple movements. Increasing stimulation intensity increased both the amplitude of the movements and the level of neuronal activity. Importantly, the activity remained local, without invading the recording domain of the second optical fiber. Furthermore, there was clear response specificity at the two recording sites in a trained behavioral task. Thus, the results provide support for movement control in M1 by local neuronal clusters that are organized in discrete cortical domains.
We used a family-based cluster detection approach designed to localize significant rare disease-risk variants clusters within a region of interest to systematically search for schizophrenia (SCZ) susceptibility genes within 49 genomic loci previously implicated by de novo copy number variants. Using two independent whole-exome sequencing family datasets and a follow-up autism spectrum disorder (ASD) case/control whole-exome sequencing dataset, we identified variants in one gene, Fanconi-associated nuclease 1 (FAN1), as being associated with both SCZ and ASD. FAN1 is located in a region on chromosome 15q13.3 implicated by a recurrent copy number variant, which predisposes to an array of psychiatric and neurodevelopmental phenotypes. In both SCZ and ASD datasets, rare nonsynonymous risk variants cluster significantly in affected individuals within a 20-kb window that spans several key functional domains of the gene. Our finding suggests that FAN1 is a key driver in the 15q13.3 locus for the associated psychiatric and neurodevelopmental phenotypes. FAN1 encodes a DNA repair enzyme, thus implicating abnormalities in DNA repair in the susceptibility to SCZ or ASD.
Humans and nonhuman primates are vulnerable to age- and menopause-related decline in working memory, a cognitive function reliant on the energy-demanding recurrent excitation of neurons within Brodmann's Area 46 of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC). Here, we tested the hypothesis that the number and morphology (straight, curved, or donut-shaped) of mitochondria in dlPFC presynaptic boutons are altered with aging and menopause in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) and that these metrics correlate with delayed response (DR) accuracy, a well-characterized measure of dlPFC-dependent working memory. Although presynaptic bouton density or size was not significantly different across groups distinguished by age or menses status, DR accuracy correlated positively with the number of total and straight mitochondria per dlPFC bouton. In contrast, DR accuracy correlated inversely with the frequency of boutons containing donut-shaped mitochondria, which exhibited smaller active zone areas and fewer docked synaptic vesicles than those with straight or curved mitochondria. We then examined the effects of estrogen administration to test whether a treatment known to improve working memory influences mitochondrial morphology. Aged ovariectomized monkeys treated with vehicle displayed significant working memory impairment and a concomitant 44% increase in presynaptic donut-shaped mitochondria, both of which were reversed with cyclic estradiol treatment. Together, our data suggest that hormone replacement therapy may benefit cognitive aging, in part by promoting mitochondrial and synaptic health in the dlPFC.

Dysferlin plays a critical role in the Ca-dependent repair of microlesions that occur in the muscle sarcolemma. Of the seven C2 domains in dysferlin, only C2A is reported to bind both Ca and phospholipid, thus acting as a key sensor in membrane repair. Dysferlin C2A exists as two isoforms, the &quot;canonical&quot; C2A and C2A variant 1 (C2Av1). Interestingly, these isoforms have markedly different responses to Ca and phospholipid. Structural and thermodynamic analyses are consistent with the canonical C2A domain as a Ca-dependent, phospholipid-binding domain, whereas C2Av1 would likely be Ca-independent under physiological conditions. Additionally, both isoforms display remarkably low free energies of stability, indicative of a highly flexible structure. The inverted ligand preference and flexibility for both C2A isoforms suggest the capability for both constitutive and Ca-regulated effector interactions, an activity that would be essential in its role as a mediator of membrane repair.
Presenilin-mediated endoproteolysis of transmembrane proteins plays a key role in physiological signaling and in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease and some cancers. Numerous inhibitors have been found via library screens, but their structural mechanisms remain unknown. We used several biophysical techniques to investigate the structure of human presenilin complexes and the effects of peptidomimetic -secretase inhibitors. The complexes are bilobed. The head contains nicastrin ectodomain. The membrane-embedded base has a central channel and a lateral cleft, which may represent the initial substrate docking site. Inhibitor binding induces widespread structural changes, including rotation of the head and closure of the lateral cleft. These changes block substrate access to the catalytic pocket and inhibit the enzyme. Intriguingly, peptide substrate docking has reciprocal effects on the inhibitor binding site. Similar reciprocal shifts may underlie the mechanisms of other inhibitors and of the &quot;lateral gate&quot; through which substrates access to the catalytic site.
Ketamine is a unique anesthetic reagent known to produce various psychotic symptoms. Ketamine has recently been reported to elicit a long-lasting antidepressant effect in patients with major depression. Although recent studies provide insight into the molecular mechanisms of the effects of ketamine, the antidepressant mechanism has not been fully elucidated. To understand the involvement of the brain serotonergic system in the actions of ketamine, we performed a positron emission tomography (PET) study on non-human primates. Four rhesus monkeys underwent PET studies with two serotonin (5-HT)-related PET radioligands, [(11)C]AZ10419369 and [(11)C]DASB, which are highly selective for the 5-HT1B receptor and serotonin transporter (SERT), respectively. Voxel-based analysis using standardized brain images revealed that ketamine administration significantly increased 5-HT1B receptor binding in the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum, whereas it significantly reduced SERT binding in these brain regions. Fenfluramine, a 5-HT releaser, significantly decreased 5-HT1B receptor binding, but no additional effect was observed when it was administered with ketamine. Furthermore, pretreatment with 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline (NBQX), a potent antagonist of the glutamate -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor, blocked the action of ketamine on the 5-HT1B receptor but not SERT binding. This indicates the involvement of AMPA receptor activation in ketamine-induced alterations of 5-HT1B receptor binding. Because NBQX is known to block the antidepressant effect of ketamine in rodents, alterations in the serotonergic neurotransmission, particularly upregulation of postsynaptic 5-HT1B receptors in the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum may be critically involved in the antidepressant action of ketamine.
Differences in general cognitive ability (intelligence) account for approximately half of the variation in any large battery of cognitive tests and are predictive of important life events including health. Genome-wide analyses of common single-nucleotide polymorphisms indicate that they jointly tag between a quarter and a half of the variance in intelligence. However, no single polymorphism has been reliably associated with variation in intelligence. It remains possible that these many small effects might be aggregated in networks of functionally linked genes. Here, we tested a network of 1461 genes in the postsynaptic density and associated complexes for an enriched association with intelligence. These were ascertained in 3511 individuals (the Cognitive Ageing Genetics in England and Scotland (CAGES) consortium) phenotyped for general cognitive ability, fluid cognitive ability, crystallised cognitive ability, memory and speed of processing. By analysing the results of a genome wide association study (GWAS) using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, a significant enrichment was found for fluid cognitive ability for the proteins found in the complexes of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex; P=0.002. Replication was sought in two additional cohorts (N=670 and 2062). A meta-analytic P-value of 0.003 was found when these were combined with the CAGES consortium. The results suggest that genetic variation in the macromolecular machines formed by membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) scaffold proteins and their interaction partners contributes to variation in intelligence.
Mammalian neural circuits are sophisticated biological systems that choreograph behavioral processes vital for survival. While the inherent complexity of discrete neural circuits has proven difficult to decipher, many parallel methodological developments promise to help delineate the function and connectivity of molecularly defined neural circuits. Here, we review recent technological advances designed to precisely monitor and manipulate neural circuit activity. We propose a holistic, multifaceted approach for unraveling how behavioral states are manifested through the cooperative interactions between discrete neurocircuit elements.
Recent studies on vasoactive intestinal peptide-expressing inhibitory neurons in the barrel and auditory cortices of the mouse brain have shown that they form a disinhibitory circuitry that affects the excitability of pyramidal neurons.
Controlled presentation of stimuli to anesthetized [1] or awake [2] animals suggested that neurons in sensory cortices respond to elementary features [3, 4], but we know little about neuronal responses evoked by social interactions. Here we investigate processing in the barrel cortex of rats engaging in social facial touch [5, 6]. Sensory stimulation by conspecifics differs from classic whisker stimuli such as deflections, contact poles [7, 8], or textures [9, 10]. A large fraction of barrel cortex neurons responded to facial touch. Social touch responses peaked when animals aligned their faces and contacted each other by multiple whiskers with small, irregular whisker movements. Object touch was associated with larger, more regular whisker movements, and object responses were weaker than social responses. Whisker trimming abolished responses. During social touch, neurons in males increased their firing on average by 44%, while neurons in females increased their firing by only 19%. In females, socially evoked and ongoing firing rates were more than 1.5-fold higher in nonestrus than in estrus. Barrel cortex represented socially different contacts by distinct firing rates, and the variation of activity with sex and sexual status could contribute to the generation of gender-specific neural constructs of conspecifics.
Basic tenets of sensory processing emphasize the importance of accurate identification and discrimination of environmental objects [1]. Although this principle holds also for reward, the crucial acquisition of reward for survival would be aided by the capacity to detect objects whose rewarding properties may not be immediately apparent. Animal learning theory conceptualizes how unrewarded stimuli induce behavioral reactions in rewarded contexts due to pseudoconditioning and higher-order context conditioning [2-6]. We hypothesized that the underlying mechanisms may involve context-sensitive reward neurons. We studied short-latency activations of dopamine neurons to unrewarded, physically salient stimuli while systematically changing reward context. Dopamine neurons showed substantial activations to unrewarded stimuli and their conditioned stimuli in highly rewarded contexts. The activations decreased and often disappeared entirely with stepwise separation from rewarded contexts. The influence of reward context suggests that dopamine neurons respond to real and potential reward. The influence of reward context is compatible with the reward nature of phasic dopamine responses. The responses may facilitate rapid, default initiation of behavioral reactions in environments usually containing reward. Agents would encounter more and miss less reward, resulting in survival advantage and enhanced evolutionary fitness.
Optogenetics is a recently developed method in which neurons are genetically modified to express membrane proteins sensitive to light, enabling precisely targeted control of neural activity [1-3]. The temporal and spatial precision afforded by neural stimulation by light holds promise as a powerful alternative to current methods of neural control, which rely predominantly on electrical and pharmacological methods, in both research and clinical settings [4, 5]. Although the optogenetic approach has been widely used in rodent and other small animal models to study neural circuitry [6-8], its functional application in primate models has proven more difficult. In contrast to the relatively large literature on the effects of cortical electrical microstimulation in perceptual and decision-making tasks [9-13], previous studies of optogenetic stimulation in primates have not demonstrated its utility in similar paradigms [14-18]. In this study, we directly compare the effects of optogenetic activation and electrical microstimulation in the lateral intraparietal area during a visuospatial discrimination task. We observed significant and predictable biases in visual attention in response to both forms of stimulation that are consistent with the experimental modulation of a visual salience map. Our results demonstrate the power of optogenetics as a viable alternative to electrical microstimulation for the precise dissection of the cortical pathways of high-level processes in the primate brain.


Higher brain dopamine content depending on lower activity of Catechol-O-Methyltransferase (COMT) in subjects with high hypnotizability scores (highs) has been considered responsible for their attentional characteristics. However, the results of the previous genetic studies on association between hypnotizability and the COMT single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs4680 (Val(158)Met) were inconsistent. Here, we used a selective genotyping approach to re-evaluate the association between hypnotizability and COMT in the context of a two-SNP haplotype analysis, considering not only the Val(158)Met polymorphism, but also the closely located rs4818 SNP. An Italian sample of 53 highs, 49 low hypnotizable subjects (lows), and 57 controls, were genotyped for a segment of 805 bp of the COMT gene, including Val(158)Met and the closely located rs4818 SNP. Our selective genotyping approach had 97.1% power to detect the previously reported strongest association at the significance level of 5%. We found no evidence of association at the SNP, haplotype, and diplotype levels. Thus, our results challenge the dopamine-based theory of hypnosis and indirectly support recent neuropsychological and neurophysiological findings reporting the lack of any association between hypnotizability and focused attention abilities.
Neuroscience currently lacks a comprehensive theory of how cognitive processes can be implemented in a biological substrate. The Neural Engineering Framework (NEF) proposes one such theory, but has not yet gathered significant empirical support, partly due to the technical challenge of building and simulating large-scale models with the NEF. Nengo is a software tool that can be used to build and simulate large-scale models based on the NEF; currently, it is the primary resource for both teaching how the NEF is used, and for doing research that generates specific NEF models to explain experimental data. Nengo 1.4, which was implemented in Java, was used to create Spaun, the world's largest functional brain model (Eliasmith et al., 2012). Simulating Spaun highlighted limitations in Nengo 1.4's ability to support model construction with simple syntax, to simulate large models quickly, and to collect large amounts of data for subsequent analysis. This paper describes Nengo 2.0, which is implemented in Python and overcomes these limitations. It uses simple and extendable syntax, simulates a benchmark model on the scale of Spaun 50 times faster than Nengo 1.4, and has a flexible mechanism for collecting simulation results.

Previous studies of perceptual category learning in patients with schizophrenia generally demonstrate impaired perceptual category learning; however, traditional cognitive studies have often failed to address the relationship of different cortical regions to perceptually based category learning and judgments in healthy participants and patients with schizophrenia. In the present study, perceptual category learning was examined in 26 patients with schizophrenia and 25 healthy participants using a dot-pattern category learning task. In the training phase, distortions of a prototypical dot pattern were presented. In the test phase, participants were shown the prototype, low and high distortions of the prototype, and random dot patterns. Participants were required to indicate whether the presented dot pattern was a member of the category of dot-patterns previously presented during the study phase. Patients with schizophrenia displayed an impaired ability to make judgments regarding marginal members of novel, perceptually based categories relative to healthy participants. Category judgment also showed opposite patterns of strong, significant correlations with behavioral measures of prefrontal cortex function in patients relative to healthy participants. These results suggest that impaired judgments regarding novel, perceptually based category membership may be due to abnormal prefrontal cortex function in patients with schizophrenia.
How attention interacts with low-level visual representations to give rise to perception remains a central yet controversial question in neuroscience. While several previous studies suggest that the units of attentional selection are individual objects, other evidence points instead toward lower-level features, such as an attended color or direction of motion. We used both human fMRI and psychophysics to investigate the relationship between object-based and feature-based attention. Specifically, we focused on whether feature-based attention is modulated by object appearance, comparing three conditions: (a) features appearing as one object; (b) features appearing as two separate but identical objects; (c) features appearing as two different objects. Stimuli were two random-dot fields presented bilaterally to central fixation, and object appearance was induced by the presence of one or two boxes around the fields. In the fMRI experiment, participants performed a luminance discrimination task on one side, and ignored the other side, where we probed for enhanced activity when either it was perceived as belonging to a same object, or shared features with the task side. In the psychophysical experiments, participants performed luminance discrimination on both sides with overlapping red and green dots, now attending to either the same features (red/red or green/green) or different features (red/green or green/red) on both sides. Results show that feature-based attentional enhancement exists in all three conditions, i.e., regardless whether features appear as one object, two identical objects, or two different objects. Our findings indicate that feature-based attention differs from object-based attention in that it is not dependent upon object appearance. Thus feature-based attention may be mediated by earlier cortical processes independent of perceiving visual features into well-formed objects.

Theories based on optimal sampling by the retina have been widely applied to visual ecology at the level of the optics of the eye, supported by visual behaviour. This leads to speculation about the additional processing that must lie in between-in the brain itself. But fewer studies have adopted a quantitative approach to evaluating the detectability of specific features in these neural pathways. We briefly review this approach with a focus on contrast sensitivity of two parallel pathways for motion processing in insects, one used for analysis of wide-field optic flow, the other for detection of small features. We further use a combination of optical modelling of image blur and physiological recording from both photoreceptors and higher-order small target motion detector neurons sensitive to small targets to show that such neurons operate right at the limits imposed by the optics of the eye and the noise level of single photoreceptors. Despite this, and the limitation of only being able to use information from adjacent receptors to detect target motion, they achieve a contrast sensitivity that rivals that of wide-field motion sensitive pathways in either insects or vertebrates-among the highest in absolute terms seen in any animal.

Clinical research shows that postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is caused primarily by the use of inhalational anesthesia and opioid analgesics. PONV is also increased by several risk predictors, including a young age, female sex, lack of smoking, and a history of motion sickness. Genetic studies are beginning to shed light on the variability in patient experiences of PONV by assessing polymorphisms of gene targets known to play roles in emesis (serotonin type 3, 5-HT3; opioid; muscarinic; and dopamine type 2, D2, receptors) and the metabolism of antiemetic drugs (e.g., ondansetron). Significant numbers of clinical trials have produced valuable information on pharmacological targets important for controlling PONV (e.g., 5-HT3 and D2), leading to the current multi-modal approach to inhibit multiple sites in this complex neural system. Despite these significant advances, there is still a lack of fundamental knowledge of the mechanisms that drive the hindbrain central pattern generator (emesis) and forebrain pathways (nausea) that produce PONV, particularly the responses to inhalational anesthesia. This gap in knowledge has limited the development of novel effective therapies of PONV. The current review presents the state of knowledge on the biological mechanisms responsible for PONV, summarizing both preclinical and clinical evidence. Finally, potential ways to advance the research of PONV and more recent developments on the study of postdischarge nausea and vomiting (PDNV) are discussed.
Although rats are incapable of vomiting, they demonstrate profound avoidance of a flavor previously paired with an emetic drug. They also display conditioned gaping reactions during re-exposure to the flavor. This robust learning occurs in a single trial and with long delays (hours) between consumption of a novel flavor and the emetic treatment. However, conditioned flavor avoidance learning is not a selective measure of the emetic properties of drugs, because non-emetic treatments (even highly rewarding treatments) produce conditioned avoidance, and anti-emetic treatments are generally ineffective in suppressing conditioned avoidance produced by an emetic drug. On the other hand, conditioned gaping reactions are consistently produced by emetic drugs and are prevented by anti-emetic drugs, indicating that they may be a more selective measure of conditioned malaise in rats. Here we review the literature on the use of conditioned flavor avoidance and conditioned gaping reactions as rat measures of conditioned nausea, as well as the neuropharmacology and neuroanatomy of conditioned gaping reactions in rats.





Dopamine D2LR-serotonin 5-HT2AR heteromers were demonstrated in HEK293 cells after cotransfection of the two receptors and shown to have bidirectional receptor-receptor interactions. In the current study the existence of D2L-5-HT2A heteroreceptor complexes was demonstrated also in discrete regions of the ventral and dorsal striatum with in situ proximity ligation assays (PLA). The hallucinogenic 5-HT2AR agonists LSD and DOI but not the standard 5-HT2AR agonist TCB2 and 5-HT significantly increased the density of D2like antagonist (3)H-raclopride binding sites and significantly reduced the pKiH values of the high affinity D2R agonist binding sites in (3)H-raclopride/DA competition experiments. Similar results were obtained in HEK293 cells and in ventral striatum. The effects of the hallucinogenic 5-HT2AR agonists on D2R density and affinity were blocked by the 5-HT2A antagonist ketanserin. In a forskolin-induced CRE-luciferase reporter gene assay using cotransfected but not D2R singly transfected HEK293 cells DOI and LSD but not TCB2 significantly enhanced the D2LR agonist quinpirole induced inhibition of CRE-luciferase activity. Haloperidol blocked the effects of both quinpirole alone and the enhancing actions of DOI and LSD while ketanserin only blocked the enhancing actions of DOI and LSD. The mechanism for the allosteric enhancement of the D2R protomer recognition and signalling observed is likely mediated by a biased agonist action of the hallucinogenic 5-HT2AR agonists at the orthosteric site of the 5-HT2AR protomer. This mechanism may contribute to the psychotic actions of LSD and DOI and the D2-5-HT2A heteroreceptor complex may thus be a target for the psychotic actions of hallunicogenic 5-HT2A agonists.
MicroRNAs have been proposed as novel regulators of vascular inflammation and dysfunction. This study aimed to evaluate the role of miR-149 in regulating the expression of key molecules associated with TNF-induced endothelial activation. miR-149 was selected by in silico analysis and microRNA target prediction. Endothelial dysfunction was induced by TNF treatment in Eahy926 endothelial cells and HUVEC. miR-149 level was evaluated by quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) was measured by zymography, Inducible Nitric Oxide Synthase (iNOS) by immunoblotting, Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and Interleukin-8 (IL-8) by ELISA. miR-149 regulatory effect was evaluated by gain-of-function technique upon miR-149 mimics transfection. TNF down-modulated miR-149 level in Eahy926 and HUVEC. This effect was significantly abolished in Eahy926 by treatment with p38MAPK inhibitor. miR-149 mimic transfection counteracted the TNF-induced expression of MMP-9, iNOS and IL-6. No effect was detected on IL-8 expression. Our results suggest that miR-149 represents an important new regulator of endothelial function through negative regulation of molecules associated with TNF-induced endothelial dysfunction.




Neurotrophins are a group of secreted polypeptides, which comprises Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF). Each neurotrophin can bind specifically to a tyrosine kinase Trk receptor (TrkA, TrkB or TrkC), while all of the neurotrophins can bind, with similar affinity, to the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)). Experiments on cell viability promotion by BDNF in granule neurons or by NGF in PC12 cells show that neurotrophin-exerted cell viability is neutral sphingomyelinase (nSMase)-dependent, since GW4869 or siRNA knockdown abrogates the protective effects, as well as neurotrophin-induced Akt phosphorylation. Finally, the assessment of nSMase activity promotion drives to the conclusion that neurotrophins can promote cell viability through Trk receptors in a manner depending on basal nSMase but not through SMase activity enhancement.
Based on an interdisciplinary perspective, we discuss how primary-process, anoetic forms of consciousness emerge into higher forms of awareness such as knowledge-based episodic knowing and self-aware forms of higher-order consciousness like autonoetic awareness. Anoetic consciousness is defined as the rudimentary state of affective, homeostatic, and sensory-perceptual mental experiences. It can be considered as the autonomic flow of primary-process phenomenal experiences that reflects a fundamental form of first-person &quot;self-experience,&quot; a vastly underestimated primary form of phenomenal consciousness. We argue that this anoetic form of evolutionarily refined consciousness constitutes a critical antecedent that is foundational for all forms of knowledge acquisition via learning and memory, giving rise to a knowledge-based, or noetic, consciousness as well as higher forms of &quot;awareness&quot; or &quot;knowing consciousness&quot; that permits &quot;time-travel&quot; in the brain-mind. We summarize the conceptual advantages of such a multi-tiered neuroevolutionary approach to psychological issues, namely from genetically controlled primary (affective) and secondary (learning and memory), to higher tertiary (developmentally emergent) brain-mind processes, along with suggestions about how affective experiences become more cognitive and object-oriented, allowing the developmental creation of more subtle higher mental processes such as episodic memory which allows the possibility of autonoetic consciousness, namely looking forward and backward at one's life and its possibilities within the &quot;mind's eye.&quot;


We investigated in this study the pharmacological properties of AC-3933 (5-(3-methoxyphenyl)-3-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1,6-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one), a novel benzodiazepine receptor (BzR) partial inverse agonist. AC-3933 potently inhibited [3H]-flumazenil binding to rat whole brain membrane with a Ki value of 5.15  0.39 nM and a GABA ratio of 0.84  0.03. AC-3933 exhibited almost no affinity for the other receptors, transporters and ion channels used in this study. In addition, AC-3933, in the presence of GABA (1 M), gradually but significantly increased [S] tert-butylbicyclophosphorothionate binding to rat cortical membrane to 117.1% of the control (maximum increase ratio) at 3000 nM. However, this increase reached a plateau at 30 nM with hardly any change at a concentration range of 100-3000 nM (from 115.2% to 117.1%). AC-3933 (0.1-10 M) significantly enhanced KCl-evoked acetylcholine (ACh) release from rat hippocampal slices in a concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, in vivo brain microdialysis showed that intragastric administration of AC-3933 at the dose of 10 mg/kg significantly increased extracellular ACh levels in the hippocampus of freely moving rats (area under the curve (AUC h) of ACh level; 288.3% of baseline). These results indicate that AC-3933, a potent and selective BzR inverse agonist with low intrinsic activity, might be useful in the treatment of cognitive disorders associated with degeneration of the cholinergic system.
This study investigates the role of phonology in reading logographic Chinese. Specifically, whether phonological information is obligatorily activated in reading Chinese two-character compounds was examined using the masked-priming paradigm with event-related potential (ERP) recordings. Twenty-two native Cantonese Chinese speakers participated in a lexical decision experiment. The targets were visually presented Chinese two-character strings and the participants were asked to judge whether the target in each trial was a legitimate compound word in Chinese. Each target was preceded by a briefly presented word prime. The prime and target shared an identical constituent character in the Character-related condition, a syllable in the Syllable-related condition, were semantically related in the Semantic-related condition, and were unrelated (both phonologically and semantically) in the control condition. The primetarget relationship was manipulated to probe the effects of word-form (i.e., character- or syllable-relatedness) and word-semantic relatedness on phonological (as indexed by an N250 ERP component) and semantic (as indexed by an N400 ERP component) processing. Significant and comparable facilitation effects in reaction time, relative to the control, were observed in the Character-related and the Semantic-related conditions. Furthermore, a significant reduction in ERP amplitudes (N250), relative to the control, was obtained in the Character-related condition in the time window of 150-250 ms post target. In addition, attenuation in ERP amplitudes was found in the Semantic-related condition in the window of 250-500 ms (N400). However, no significant results (neither behavioral nor ERP) were found in the Syllable-related condition. These results suggest that phonological activation is not mandatory and the role of phonology is minimal at best in reading Chinese two-character compounds.
Modulation of L-type Ca-channel function by dopamine is a major determinant of the rate of action potential firing by striatal medium spiny neurons. However, the role of these channels in modulating GABA release by nerve terminals in the basal ganglia is unknown. We found that depolarization-induced [H]GABA release in both the substantia nigra reticulata and the external globus pallidus (GPe), was depressed by about 50% by either the selective L-channel dihydropyridine blocker nifedipine or the P/Q channel blocker -agatoxin TK. The effects of these blockers were additive and together eliminated about 90% of depolarization-induced [H]GABA release. In addition, in the substantia nigra reticulata, dihydropyridines prevented both the stimulation of [H]GABA release produced by dopamine D1 receptor activation and the inhibition caused by D4 receptor activation. In the GP nifedipine blocked the effects of D2 and A2(A) receptor coactivation as well as the effects of activating adenylyl cyclase with forskolin. -Agatoxin TK did not interfere with the action of these modulatory agents. The L-type Ca-channel agonist BAYK 8644 stimulated GABA release in both substantia nigra reticulata and GP. Because dihydropyridine sensitivity is a key criterion to identify L-type Ca-channel activity, our results imply that these channels are determinant of GABA release modulation by dopamine in striatonigral, striatopallidal and pallidonigral terminals.
The mood-stabilizing drug lithium is the most commonly used treatment for bipolar disorder. Previous studies have shown that chronic treatment with lithium produces a protective effect against oxidative stress. Nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a gene transcription factor that binds to the electrophile response element (EpRE) and triggers expression of various genes with antioxidant properties. Nrf2 contributes significantly to cytoprotection against oxidative stress. The purpose of this study is to determine the role of Nrf2 in the protective effect of lithium against oxidative stress. We found, using immunoblotting analysis, that chronic, but not acute treatment with lithium increased nuclear levels of Nrf2 in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. DNA pull-down assay has shown that Nrf2 can bind to a double-strained oligonucleotide containing an EpRE site from glutathione s-transferase A4. Electrophorectic gel shift analysis further showed that chronic treatment with lithium increased Nrf-2-EpRE binding activity. We also found that knocking down Nrf2 with its short hairpin RNA inhibited lithium-increased expression of Nrf2 and suppressed the protective effect of lithium against hydrogen peroxide (HO)-reduced cell viability and HO-increased DNA fragmentation. Because Nrf2 can induce expression of various genes that play important roles in cytoprotection, the current findings suggest that Nrf2 may mediate the neuroprotective effect of lithium against oxidative stress.
Kainic acid (KA) administration is known to cause seizures and neuronal death in the hippocampus. High-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the hippocampus can be a promising method in the treatment of epilepsy while the mechanism of action is unknown yet. It remains unknown whether HFS is neuroprotective for hippocampal neurons following KA-induced seizures in macaques, although HFS has neuroprotective effects in animal models of Parkinson's disease. We therefore examined the effects of HFS on KA-induced seizures and neuronal survival in macaque's hippocampus. Seizure frequency following KA that led to seizures in macaques was strongly reduced by HFS of the hippocampus. In addition, administration of KA led to marked neuronal apoptosis in the hippocampus, accompanied by increased levels of Bax, activated caspase-3 and decreased levels of Bcl-2. HFS was found to attenuate changes in apoptosis-related proteins and robustly decreased neuronal loss following KA administration. These data indicate that hippocampal HFS can protect hippocampal neurons against KA neurotoxicity, and that HFS neuroprotection is likely to operate with inhibition of apoptosis.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is present in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn and inhibits spinal nociceptive processing, but the mechanisms underlying its anti-hyperalgesic actions are unclear. We hypothesized that NPY acts at neuropeptide Y1 receptors in the dorsal horn to decrease nociception by inhibiting substance P (SP) release, and that these effects are enhanced by inflammation. To evaluate SP release, we used microdialysis and neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1R) internalization in rat. NPY decreased capsaicin-evoked SP-like immunoreactivity in the microdialysate of the dorsal horn. NPY also decreased non-noxious stimulus (paw brush)-evoked NK1R internalization (as well as mechanical hyperalgesia and mechanical and cold allodynia) after intraplantar injection of carrageenan. Similarly, in rat spinal cord slices with dorsal root attached, [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY inhibited dorsal root stimulus-evoked NK1R internalization. In rat dorsal root ganglion neurons, Y1 receptors colocalized extensively with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). In dorsal horn neurons, Y1 receptors were extensively expressed and this may have masked the detection of terminal co-localization with CGRP or SP. To determine whether the pain inhibitory actions of Y1 receptors are enhanced by inflammation, we administered [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY after intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in rat. We found that [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY reduced paw clamp-induced NK1R internalization in CFA rats but not uninjured controls. To determine the contribution of increased Y1 receptor-G protein coupling, we measured [(35)S]GTPS binding simulated by [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY in mouse dorsal horn. CFA inflammation increased the affinity of Y1 receptor G-protein coupling. We conclude that Y1 receptors contribute to the anti-hyperalgesic effects of NPY by mediating the inhibition of SP release, and that Y1 receptor signaling in the dorsal horn is enhanced during inflammatory nociception.
MicroRNA (miRNA) is a small non-coding RNA that regulates gene expression by degrading target mRNAs or inhibiting translation. Although many miRNAs play important roles in various conditions, it is unclear whether miRNAs are involved in motor nerve regeneration. In this study, we identified the possible implication of miR-124 in nerve regeneration using a mouse hypoglossal nerve injury model. The significant down-regulation of miR-124 was observed in injured hypoglossal motor neurons after nerve injury, and this transient down-regulation showed a clear inverse correlation with the up-regulation of KLF6 and STAT3, known as axon elongation factor and regeneration-associated molecules, respectively. Furthermore, the luciferase assay and in vitro gain of function methods supported that both genes could be potent targets of miR-124. These results suggest that injury-induced repression of miR-124 may be implicated in the regulation of expression of several injury-associated transcription factors, which are crucial for appropriate nerve regeneration.
Autophagy is responsible for the bulk degradation of cytoplasmic contents including organelles through the lysosomal machinery. Neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) causes cell death in the brain by caspase-dependent and independent pathways. Ischemic insults also increase the formation of autophagosomes and activate autophagy. This study assessed the possible sex- and region-specific differences of autophagy activity in neonates subjected to HI brain injury. HI males had a modest decrease in lysosome numbers with no effect on LC3B-II protein in the cortex. In contrast, HI females had decreased lysosome numbers and their LC3B-II protein expression was significantly increased in the cortex following HI. In the hippocampus, both HI males and all females had increased numbers of autolysosomes suggesting activation of autophagy but with no effect on lysosome numbers, or Beclin-1 or LC3B protein levels. Males and females had increases in caspase 3/7 activity in their cortices and hippocampi following HI, though the increases were three to sixfold greater in females. The present data: (a) confirm greater caspase activation in the brains of females compared to males following HI; (b) suggest a partial failure to degrade LC3B-II protein in cortical but not hippocampal lysosomes of females as compared to males following neonatal HI; (c) all females have greater basal autophagy activity than males which may protect cells against injury by increasing cell turnover and (d) demonstrate that autophagy pathways are disturbed in regional- and sex-specific patterns in the rat brain following neonatal HI.
Tissue damage during the neonatal period evokes long-lasting changes in nociceptive processing within the adult spinal cord which contribute to persistent alterations in pain sensitivity. However, it remains unclear if the observed modifications in neuronal activity within the mature superficial dorsal horn (SDH) following early injury reflect shifts in the intrinsic membrane properties of these cells. Therefore, the present study was undertaken to identify the effects of neonatal surgical injury on the intrinsic excitability of both GABAergic and presumed glutamatergic neurons within lamina II of the adult SDH using in vitro patch clamp recordings from spinal cord slices prepared from glutamic acid decarboxylase-green fluorescent protein (Gad-GFP) mice. The results demonstrate that hindpaw surgical incision at postnatal day (P) 3 altered the passive membrane properties of both Gad-GFP and adjacent, non-GFP neurons in the mature SDH, as evidenced by decreased membrane resistance and more negative resting potentials in comparison to nave littermate controls. This was accompanied by a reduction in the prevalence of spontaneous activity within the GABAergic population. Both Gad-GFP and non-GFP neurons displayed a significant elevation in rheobase and decreased instantaneous firing frequency after incision, suggesting that early tissue damage lowers the intrinsic membrane excitability of adult SDH neurons. Isolation of inward-rectifying K(+) (K(ir)) currents revealed that neonatal incision significantly increased K(ir) conductance near physiological membrane potentials in GABAergic, but not glutamatergic, lamina II neurons. Overall, these findings suggest that neonatal tissue injury causes a long-term dampening of intrinsic firing across the general population of lamina II interneurons, but the underlying ionic mechanisms may be cell-type specific.
Recent studies have demonstrated that transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) modulates cortical activity in the human brain. In the language domain, it has already been shown that during a naming task tDCS reduces vocal reaction times in healthy individuals and speeds up the recovery process in left brain-damaged aphasic subjects. In this study, we wondered whether tDCS would influence the ability to articulate tongue twisters during a repetition task. Three groups of 10 healthy individuals were asked to repeat a list of tongue twisters in three different stimulation conditions: one group performed the task during anodal tDCS (atDCS) (20 min, 2 mA) over the left frontal region; a second group during cathodal tDCS delivered over the same region; and, in a third group, sham stimulation was applied. Accuracy and vocal reaction times in repeating each tongue twister before, during and 1h after the stimulation were recorded. Participants were more accurate and faster at repeating the stimuli during atDCS than at baseline, while cathodal tDCS significantly reduced their performance in terms of accuracy and reaction times. No significant differences were observed among the three time points during the sham condition. We believe that these data clearly confirm that the left frontal region is critically involved in the process of speech repetition. They are also in line with recent evidence suggesting that frontal tDCS might be used as a therapeutic tool in patients suffering from articulatory deficits.
One of the major consequences of stroke is brain injury caused by glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity. Glutamate-mediated excitatory activities are partially driven by 2-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (2-nAChRs). In examining the role of 2-nAChRs in cerebral ischemic injury, excitotoxicity and stroke outcome, we found that deficiency of 2-nAChRs attenuated brain infarction and neurological deficit at 24 and 72 h after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Genetic deletion of 2-nAChRs associated with reduced terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL(+)) and cleaved caspase-3(+) cells after MCAO, together with a reduction of extracellular glutamate and oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced increase of excitatory inputs in cortical neurons. Pharmacologic pretreatment with a selective 2-nAChRs antagonist reduced brain infarction, neurological deficit, and MCAO-induced glutamate release. These findings suggest that deficiency of 2-nAChRs, also achievable by pharmacological blockade, can decrease brain infarction and improve the neurological status in ischemic stroke. The improved outcome is associated with reduced extracellular glutamate level and lower excitatory inputs into ischemic neurons, suggesting a reduction of glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity in the mechanisms of neuroprotection.
Progesterone (PROG) is promising as an important protective agent against various injuries to the nervous system. The present study was designed to investigate whether starting PROG administration, when symptomatology is already established, would alleviate the expression of nociceptive behaviors (mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia) and electrophysiological changes in a chronic constriction injury (CCI) model of neuropathic pain in rats. Male rats were given PROG (1.5, 3, 6 and 12 mg/kg, i.p.) 12 days after CCI induction, and dosing continued daily until day 26. Behavioral tests were done immediately before surgery (day 0) and on days 12, 26, 28, and 35 post-CCI, and were followed by electrophysiological measurements in the last day. PROG at doses of 6 or 12 mg/kg reduced both the thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia induced by CCI. Electrophysiological data indicated that CCI-induced animals had a remarkable decrement of both compound muscle and nerve action potential amplitudes recorded in the gastrocnemius muscle and sural nerve, respectively. CCI also caused a significant reduction in motor and sensory conduction velocities measured in the sural and tibial nerves, respectively. PROG at doses of 6 or 12 mg/kg induced a significant recovery of all electrophysiological changes. Our data indicated that starting PROG therapy when symptomatology is already established, and continuing it for a sufficient period of time, may have a therapeutic effect. This suggests that PROG may offer new strategies for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
In this study we were interested in the neural system supporting the audiovisual (AV) integration of emotional expression and emotional prosody. To this end normal participants were exposed to short videos of a computer-animated face voicing emotionally positive or negative words with the appropriate prosody. Facial expression of the face was either neutral or emotionally appropriate. To reveal the neural network involved in affective AV integration, standard univariate analysis of functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) data was followed by a random-effects Granger causality mapping (RFX-GCM). The regions that distinguished emotional from neutral facial expressions in the univariate analysis were taken as seed regions. In trials showing emotional expressions compared to neutral trials univariate analysis showed activation primarily in bilateral amygdala, fusiform gyrus, middle temporal gyrus/superior temporal sulcus and inferior occipital gyrus. When employing either the left amygdala or the right amygdala as a seed region in RFX-GCM we found connectivity with the right hemispheric fusiform gyrus, with the indication that the fusiform gyrus sends information to the Amygdala. These results led to a working model for face perception in general and for AV-affective integration in particular which is an elaborated adaptation of existing models.
During a study of spinal cord injury (SCI), mice in our colony were treated with the anthelmintic fenbendazole to treat pinworms detected in other mice not involved in the study. As this was not part of the original experimental design, we subsequently compared pathological and functional outcomes of SCI in female C57BL/6 mice who received fenbendazole (150 ppm, 8 mg/kg body weight/day) for 4 weeks prior to moderate contusive SCI (50 kdyn force) as compared to mice on the same diet without added fenbendazole. The fenbendazole-treated mice exhibited improved locomotor function, determined using the Basso mouse scale, as well as improved tissue sparing following contusive SCI. Fenbendazole may exert protective effects through multiple possible mechanisms, one of which is inhibition of the proliferation of B lymphocytes, thereby reducing antibody responses. Autoantibodies produced following SCI contribute to the axon damage and locomotor deficits. Fenbendazole pretreatment reduced the injury-induced CD45R-positive B cell signal intensity and IgG immunoreactivity at the lesion epicenter 6 weeks after contusive SCI in mice, consistent with a possible effect on the immune response to the injury. Fenbendazole and related benzimadole antihelmintics are FDA approved, exhibit minimal toxicity, and represent a novel group of potential therapeutics targeting secondary mechanisms following SCI.
Multisensory integration has been widely studied in neurons of the mammalian superior colliculus (SC). This has led to the description of various determinants of multisensory integration, including those based on stimulus- and neuron-specific factors. The most widely characterized of these illustrate the importance of the spatial and temporal relationships of the paired stimuli as well as their relative effectiveness in eliciting a response in determining the final integrated output. Although these stimulus-specific factors have generally been considered in isolation (i.e., manipulating stimulus location while holding all other factors constant), they have an intrinsic interdependency that has yet to be fully elucidated. For example, changes in stimulus location will likely also impact both the temporal profile of response and the effectiveness of the stimulus. The importance of better describing this interdependency is further reinforced by the fact that SC neurons have large receptive fields, and that responses at different locations within these receptive fields are far from equivalent. To address these issues, the current study was designed to examine the interdependency between the stimulus factors of space and effectiveness in dictating the multisensory responses of SC neurons. The results show that neuronal responsiveness changes dramatically with changes in stimulus location - highlighting a marked heterogeneity in the spatial receptive fields of SC neurons. More importantly, this receptive field heterogeneity played a major role in the integrative product exhibited by stimulus pairings, such that pairings at weakly responsive locations of the receptive fields resulted in the largest multisensory interactions. Together these results provide greater insight into the interrelationship of the factors underlying multisensory integration in SC neurons, and may have important mechanistic implications for multisensory integration and the role it plays in shaping SC-mediated behaviors.
We have previously demonstrated that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist ameliorated neurodegenerative changes in rat models of diabetes-related Alzheimer's disease (AD), and protected neurons from glucose toxicity in vitro. Herein, we investigated the effects of GLP-1 receptor mediates on cell toxicity and tau hyperphosphorylation induced by advanced glycation end products (AGEs), which are associated with glucose toxicity, and the molecular mechanism in PC12 cells and the primary hippocampal neurons. Our study demonstrated that the similar protection effects of GLP-1 existed in PC12 cells treated with glucose-bovine serum albumin (BSA) in hyperglycemic conditions or with glycoaldehyde-BSA alone. Additionally, glucose-BSA alone did not induce significant cytotoxicity in PC12 cells, but resulted in tau hyperphosphorylation in primary hippocampal neurons in 24h. And we found that GLP-1 could reduce cell tau phosphorylation induced by high glucose or glucose-BSA. Furthermore, our data in the present study suggested that GLP-1 regulated tau phosphorylation induced by AGEs through a signaling pathway involving glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3), similarly to the GSK-3 inhibitor, lithium chloride. Our findings suggest that GLP-1 can protect neurons from diabetes-associated AGE insults in vitro, and provide new evidence for a potential therapeutic value of GLP-1 receptor agonist in the treatment of AD especially diabetes-related AD.
Perinatal nutrient restriction exerts profound influences on brain development. Animals that suffer undernutrition during lactation also display impaired weight gain. Feeding behavior is mainly modulated by neural and hormonal inputs to the hypothalamus. The arcuate-paraventricular neuropeptidergic Y pathway has a prominent role in appetite regulation. The aim of this work was to study the effects of protein undernutrition during lactation on this hypothalamic pathway. We used rats from 5 to 60 postnatal (P) days whose dams were fed a 0% protein diet (PFG) or a normoprotein diet (CG) from P1 to P10. To reproduce the same amount of calorie ingested by the PFG we used an underfed group (UFG). Immunohistochemistry was performed to assess neuropeptide Y (NPY) distribution in the arcuate, periventricular and paraventricular nuclei. Our results showed a NPY immunostaining peak at P10 in all nuclei in CG animals. In UFG animals this peak was observed by P15, while, in the PFG animals only by P20. Our results suggest that the neuropeptidergic arcuate-paraventricular pathway suffered a delay in NPY distribution in undernourished animals, particularly those fed a 0% protein diet, reflecting an effect on this pathway maturation that could explain previously reported alterations on feeding behavior in these animals.
The spatial pattern of synapse activation may impact on synaptic plasticity. This applies to the synaptically-evoked endocannabinoid-mediated short-term depression at the parallel fiber (PF) to Purkinje cell synapse, the occurrence of which requires close proximity between the activated synapses. Here, we determine quantitatively this required proximity, helped by the geometrical organization of the cerebellar molecular layer. Transgenic mice expressing a calcium indicator selectively in granule cells enabled the imaging of action potential-evoked presynaptic calcium rise in isolated, single PFs. This measurement was used to derive the number of PFs activated within a beam of PFs stimulated in the molecular layer, from which the density of activated PFs (input density) was calculated. This density was on average 2.8 m(-2) in sagittal slices and twice more in transverse slices. The synaptically-evoked endocannabinoid-mediated suppression of excitation (SSE) evoked by ten stimuli at 200 Hz was determined from the monitoring of either postsynaptic responses or presynaptic calcium rise. The SSE was significantly larger when recorded in transverse slices, where the input density is larger. The exponential description of the SSE plotted as a function of the input density suggests that the SSE is half reduced when the input density decreases from 6 to 2 m(-2). We conclude that, although all PFs are truncated in an acute sagittal slice, half of them remain respondent to stimulation, and activated synapses need to be closer than 1.5 m to synergize in endocannabinoid signaling.
Sound envelope plays a crucial role in perception: ramped sounds (slow attack and quick decay) are louder in strength and longer in subjective duration than damped sounds (quick attack and slow decay) even if they are equal in intensity and physical duration. To explain the asymmetrical perception, the perceptual constancy hypothesis supposes that the listener eliminates the slow decay of damped sounds from the judgment of perception, while the persistence of perception hypothesis supposes asymmetrical neural responses after the source has stopped. To understand neural mechanisms underlying the perceptual asymmetry, we explored response properties of the primary auditory cortex (A1) neurons during ramped and damped stimuli in awake cats. We found two distinct types of cells tuned to specific features of the sound envelope: edge cells sensitive to the temporal edge, such as quick attack and decay, while slope cells sensitive to slow attack and decay. The former needs a short (&lt;2.5 ms) period of stimulus duration for evoking maximal peak responses, while the latter needs a long (20 ms) period, suggesting that the timescale of processing underlies differential sensitivity between the cell types. The findings suggest that perceptual constancy is not yet be executed at A1 because the specific cells distinguishing the direction of amplitude change (attack or decay) are lacking in A1. On the other hand, there is evidence of persistence of perception: overall response duration during ramped sound reached 1.4 times longer than that during damped sound, originating mainly from the response asymmetry of the edge cell (sensitive to the quick decay of ramped sounds but not to the slow decay of damped sounds), and neuronal persistence of excitation after the termination of ramped sounds was substantially longer than that of damped sounds, corresponding to the psychological evidence of persistence of perception.
Neurochemical features in sympathetic and afferent neurons are subject to change during development. Nitric oxide (NO) plays a developmental role in the nervous system. To better understand the neuroplasticity of sympathetic and afferent neurons during postnatal ontogenesis, the distribution of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) immunoreactivity was studied in the sympathetic para- and prevertebral, nodose ganglion (NG) and Th2 and L4 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from female Wistar rats of different ages (newborn, 10-day-old, 20-day-old, 30-day-old, 2-month-old, 6-month-old, 1-year-old, and 3-year-old). nNOS-positive neurons were revealed in all sensory ganglia but not in sympathetic ones from birth onward. The percentage of nNOS-immunoreactive (IR) neurons increased during first 10 days of life from 41.3 to 57.6 in Th2 DRG, from 40.9 to 59.1 in L4 DRG and from 31.6 to 38.5 in NG. The percentage of nNOS-IR neurons did not change in the NG later during development and senescence. However, in Th2 and L4 DRG the proportion of nNOS-IR neurons was high in animals between 10 and 30days of life and decreased up to the second month of life. In 2-month-old rats, the percentage of nNOS-IR neurons was 52.9 in Th2 DRG and 51.3 in L4 DRG. We did not find statistically significant differences in the percentage of nNOS-IR neurons between Th2 and L4 DRG and between young and aged rats. In NG and DRG of 10-day-old and older rats, a high proportion of nNOS-IR neurons binds isolectin B4. In newborn animals, only 41.3%, 45.3% and 28.4% of nNOS neuron profiles bind to IB4 in Th2, L4 DRG and NG, respectively. In 10-day-old and older rats, the number of sensory nNOS-IR neurons binding IB4 reached more than 90% in DRG and more than 80% in NG. Only a small number of nNOS-positive cells showed immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide, neurofilament 200, calretinin. The information provided here will also serve as a basis for future studies investigating mechanisms of the development of sensory neurons.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) has been implicated in the transmission of nociceptive input in diabetic neuropathy. The aim of this study was to test whether intraganglionic (i.g.) injection of CaMKII inhibitors may alleviate pain-related behavior in diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats using 55 mg/kg streptozotocin intraperitoneally. Two weeks after diabetes induction, CaMKII inhibitors myristoil-AIP and KN93 were injected directly into the right L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG). Behavioral testing with mechanical and thermal stimuli was performed before induction of diabetes, the day preceding the injection, as well as 2 and 24h after the i.g. injection. The expression of total CaMKII and its alpha isoform in DRG neurons was analyzed using immunohistochemistry. CaMKII inhibitors attenuated pain-related behavior in a modality-specific fashion. Attenuation of nociceptive behavior was accompanied with a corresponding decrease of CaMKII alpha expression in DRG neurons on the side of injection. A significant decrease of CaMKII alpha expression was seen in small- and medium-sized neurons. In conclusion, our study provides evidence that CaMKII inhibitors are potential pharmacological agents that should be further explored for treatment of diabetic neuropathy symptoms.
In female mammals, the postpartum period involves dramatic shifts in many socioemotional behaviors. This includes a suppression of anxiety-related behaviors that requires recent physical contact with offspring. Factors contributing to differences among females in their susceptibility to the anxiety-modulating effect of offspring contact are unknown, but could include their innate anxiety and brain monoaminergic activity. Anxiety behavior was assessed in a large group of nulliparous female rats and the least-anxious and most-anxious tertiles were mated. Anxiety was assessed again postpartum after females were permitted or prevented from contacting their offspring 4 h before testing. Levels of dopamine -hydroxylase (DBH, norepinephrine synthesizing enzyme) and tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2, serotonin synthesizing enzyme) were measured in the brainstem and dorsal raphe, respectively. It was found that anxiety-related behavior in the two groups did not differ when dams were permitted contact with offspring before testing. Removal of the offspring before testing, however, differentially affected anxiety based on dams' innate anxiety. Specifically, dams reverted back to their pre-mating levels of anxiety such that offspring removal slightly increased anxiety in the most-anxious females but greatly lowered anxiety in the least-anxious females. This reduction in anxiety in the least-anxious females after litter removal was associated with lower brainstem DBH. There was no relationship between females' anxiety and dorsal raphe TPH2. Thus, a primary effect of recent contact with offspring on anxiety-related behavior in postpartum rats is to shift females away from their innate anxiety to a more moderate level of responding. This effect is particularly true for females with the lowest anxiety, may be mediated by central noradrenergic systems, and has implications for their ability to attend to their offspring.
Neuroinflammatory disturbances have been closely associated with depression and many other neuropsychiatric diseases. Although targeting neuroinflammatory mediators with centrally acting drugs has shown certain promise, its translation is faced with several challenges especially drug delivery and safety concerns. Here, we report that neuroinflammation-induced behavioral abnormality could be effectively attenuated with immunomodulatory agents that need not to gain brain penetration. In a rat model with intracerebral lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge, we validated that ginsenoside Rg1 (Rg1), a well-established anti-inflammatory agent, was unable to produce a direct action in the brain. Interestingly, peripherally restricted Rg1 could effectively attenuate the weight loss, anorexic- and depressive-like behavior as well as neurochemical disturbances associated with central LPS challenge. Biochemical assay of neuroimmune mediators in the periphery revealed that Rg1 could mitigate the deregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and selectively blunt the increase in circulating interleukin-6 levels. Furthermore, these peripheral regulatory effects were accompanied by dampened microglial activation, mitigated expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and neurotoxic species in the central compartment. Taken together, our work suggested that targeting the peripheral immune system may serve as a novel therapeutic approach to neuroinflammation-induced neuropsychiatric disorders. Moreover, our findings provided the rationale for employing peripherally active agents like Rg1 to combat mental disturbances.

Verbal insight problem solving means to break mental sets, to select the novel semantic information and to form novel, task-related associations. Although previous studies have identified the brain regions associated with these key processes, the interaction among these regions during insight is still unclear. In the present study, we explored the functional connectivity between the key regions during solving Chinese 'chengyu' riddles by using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. Results showed that both insight and noninsight solutions activated the bilateral inferior frontal gyri, middle temporal gyri and hippocampi, and these regions constituted a frontal to temporal to hippocampal neural pathway. Compared with noninsight solution, insight solution had a stronger functional connectivity between the inferior frontal gyrus and middle temporal gyrus in the right hemisphere. Our study reveals the neural pathway of information processing during verbal insight problem solving, and supports the right-hemisphere advantage theory of insight.
Diabetes type 1 is a common autoimmune disease manifesting by insulin deficiency and hyperglycemia, which can lead to dementia-like brain dysfunctions. The factors triggering the pathological processes in hyperglycemic brain remain unknown. We reported in this study that brain areas with different susceptibility to diabetes (prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum) revealed differential alterations in ceramide (Cer) and sphingomyelin (SM) profiles in rats with streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia. Employing gas-liquid chromatography, we found that level of total Cer increased significantly only in the PFC of diabetic animals, which also exhibited a broad spectrum of sphingolipid (SLs) changes, such as elevations of Cer-C16:0, -C18:0, -C20:0, -C22:0, -C18:1, -C24:1 and SM-C16:0 and -C18:1. In opposite, only minor changes were noted in other examined structures. In addition, de novo synthesis pathway could play a role in generation of Cer containing monounsaturated fatty acids in PFC during hyperglycemia. In turn, simultaneous accumulation of Cers and their SM counterparts may suggest that overproduced Cers are converted to SMs to avoid excessive Cer-mediated cytotoxicity. We conclude that broad changes in SLs compositions in PFC induced by hyperglycemia may provoke membrane rearrangements in some cell populations, which can disturb cellular signaling and cause tissue damage.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most frequent neurodegenerative disorder afflicting 2% of the population older than 65 years worldwide. Recently, brain organotypic slices have been used to model neurodegenerative disorders, including PD. They conserve brain three-dimensional architecture, synaptic connectivity and its microenvironment. This model has allowed researchers a simple and rapid method to observe cellular interactions and mechanisms. In the present study, we developed an organotypic PD model from rat brains that includes all the areas involved in the nigrostriatal pathway in a single slice preparation, without using neurotoxins to induce the dopaminergic lesion. The mechanical transection of the nigrostriatal pathway obtained during slice preparation induced PD-like histopathology. Progressive nigrostriatal degeneration was monitored combining innovative approaches, such as diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-RMI) to follow fiber degeneration and mass spectrometry to quantify striatal dopamine content, together with bright-field and fluorescence microscopy imaging. A substantia nigra dopaminergic cell number decrease was observed by immunohistochemistry against rat tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) reaching 80% after 2 days in culture associated with a 30% decrease of striatal TH-positive fiber density, a 15% loss of striatal dopamine content quantified by mass spectrometry and a 70% reduction of nigrostriatal fiber fractional anisotropy quantified by DT-RMI. In addition, a significant decline of medium spiny neuron density was observed from days 7 to 16. These sagittal organotypic slices could be used to study the early stage of PD, namely dopaminergic degeneration, and the late stage of the pathology with dopaminergic and GABAergic neuron loss. This novel model might improve the understanding of PD and may represent a promising tool to refine the evaluation of new therapeutic approaches.
Light stimulates specialized retinal ganglion cells to release glutamate (Glu) onto circadian clock neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Glu resets the phase of the SCN circadian clock by activating N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) causing either delays or advances in the clock phase, depending on early- or late-night stimulation, respectively. In addition, these Glu-induced phase shifts require tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB) receptor activity. Previous studies show that copper (Cu) released at hippocampal synapses can inhibit NMDAR activity, and application of exogenous Cu likewise inhibits NMDAR activity. We investigated the effects of Cu in acute SCN brain slices prepared from C57BL/6Nhsd adult, male mice using treatments that decrease or increase available Cu levels in vitro and recorded neuronal activity on the following day. When bath-applied for 10 min at zeitgeber time (ZT) 16 (where ZT0=lights-on in the donor animal colony), the Cu-specific chelators tetrathiomolybdate (TTM) and bathocuproine disulfonate each induce 2.5-3-h phase delays in circadian neuronal activity rhythms, similarly to Glu-induced phase delays. Co-application of 10 M CuCl2, but not 10 M CoCl blocks TTM-induced phase delays. Furthermore, TTM causes phase advances when applied at ZT23. At both application times, TTM-induced phase shifts are blocked by NMDA or TrkB receptor antagonists. Surprisingly, bath-application of 10 M Cu alone also induces phase shifts in analogous experiments at ZT16 and ZT23. Inhibiting NMDAR does not block Cu-induced phase shifts. TrkB inhibition blocks Cu-induced phase delays but not phase advances. Thus, increasing and decreasing Cu availability appear to shift the SCN clock phase through different mechanisms, at least at the receptor level. We propose that Cu plays a role in the SCN circadian clock by modulating Glu signaling.
Obesity resistance due to elevated orexin signaling is accompanied by high levels of spontaneous physical activity (SPA). The behavioral and neural mechanisms underlying this observation have not been fully worked out. We determined the contribution of hypothalamic orexin receptors (OXRs) to SPA stimulated by orexin A (OXA), whether OXA-stimulated SPA was secondary to arousal and whether voluntary wheel running led to compensations in 24-h SPA. We further tested whether orexin action on dopamine one receptors (DA1R) in the substantia nigra (SN) plays an important role in the generation of SPA. To test this, SPA response was determined in lean and obese rats with cannulae targeted toward the rostral lateral hypothalamus (rLH) or SN. Sleep/wake states were also measured in rats with rLH cannula and electroencephalogram/electromyogram radiotelemetry transmitters. SPA in lean rats was more sensitive to antagonism of the OX1R and in the early response to the orexin 2 agonist. OXA increased arousal equally in lean and obese rodents, which is discordant from the greater SPA response in lean rats. Obesity-resistant rats ran more and wheel running was directly related to 24-h SPA levels. The OX1R antagonist, SB-334867-A, and the DA1R antagonist, SCH3390, in SN more effectively reduced SPA stimulated by OXA in obesity-resistant rats. These data suggest OXA-stimulated SPA is not secondary to enhanced arousal, propensity for SPA parallels inclination to run and that orexin action on dopaminergic neurons in SN may participate in the mediation of SPA and running wheel activity.
Tinnitus is a bothersome phantom sound percept and its neural correlates are not yet disentangled. Previously published papers, using [(18)F]-fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), have suggested an increased metabolism in the left primary auditory cortex in tinnitus patients. This unilateral hyperactivity has been used as a target in localized treatments such as transcranial magnetic stimulation. The purpose of the current study was to test whether left-sided hyperactivity in the auditory cortex is specific to tinnitus or is a general characteristic of the auditory system unrelated to tinnitus. Therefore, FDG-PET was used to measure brain metabolism in 20 tinnitus patients and to compare their results to those in 19 control subjects without tinnitus. In contrast to our expectation, there was no hyperactivity associated with tinnitus. Nevertheless, the activity in the left primary auditory cortex was higher than in the right primary auditory cortex, but this asymmetry was present in both tinnitus patients and control subjects. In contrast, the lateralization in secondary auditory cortex was opposite, with higher activation in the right hemisphere. These data show that hemisphere asymmetries in the metabolic resting activity of the auditory cortex are present, but these are not associated with tinnitus and are a normal characteristic of the normal brain.
The apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4) allele is consistently associated with increased risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). We investigated the molecular mechanism of this susceptibility by analyzing the levels of genes involved in AD pathogenesis in transgenic mice expressing human apoE3 or apoE4 isoforms. mRNA and protein levels of Pin1, Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1), Presenilin 1 (PS1), and pro-Brain-derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) were analyzed in brain regions affected by neuropathological changes in AD. Pin1 mRNA was significantly higher in the hippocampus of apoE4 mice than in apoE3 controls, whereas lower expression was detected in the entorhinal and parietal cortices. Reduced Pin1 levels may increase neurofibrillary degeneration and amyloidogenic processes, while compensatory mechanisms may take place in the hippocampus to balance spatial memory deficits. Sirt1 levels were significantly reduced in the frontal cortex of apoE4 mice. Sirt1 reduction may hinder its protective role against the formation of plaques and tangles and diminish its anti-inflammatory actions. Sirt1 decrease may also play a role in apoE4-associated memory impairments. Moreover, in apoE4 mice PS1 mRNA levels were lower in the frontal cortex. Lower PS1 expression may hamper -secretase function, thus affecting amyloid precursor protein processing. Pro-BDNF mRNA levels did not differ between apoE3 and apoE4 mice in any region analyzed. This study showed dysregulated expression of Pin1, Sirt1, and PS1 genes in different cerebral areas of apoE4 mice, suggesting that these changes may play a role in the mechanism of AD vulnerability.
In the central nervous system, the normal development of neuronal circuits requires adequate temporal activation of receptors for individual neurotransmitters. Previous studies have demonstrated that -adrenoceptor (-AR) activation eliminates spontaneous action potentials of interneurons in the cerebellar molecular layer (MLIs) and subsequently reduces the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) in Purkinje cells (PCs) after the second postnatal week. The magnitude of the -adrenergic reduction in sIPSC frequency is enhanced during the third postnatal week because of an increase in firing-derived sIPSCs. However, little is known about the effects of -AR activation by noradrenaline (NA) on cerebellar GABAergic synaptic transmission that is accompanied by the activation of other AR subtypes, - and -ARs. Here, we developmentally examined the roles of -AR activation in the noradrenergic facilitation of sIPSCs in cerebellar PCs. Until the second postnatal week, when substantial inhibitory effects of -ARs are absent, NA potentiated sIPSCs and maintained the increased sIPSC frequency, suggesting that NA causes long-lasting facilitation of GABAergic synaptic transmission through - and -AR activation. After the second postnatal week, NA transiently increased the sIPSC frequency, whereas blocking -ARs sustained the noradrenergic sIPSC facilitation and increase in the firing rate of MLIs, suggesting that -AR activation suppresses the noradrenergic facilitation of GABAergic synaptic transmission. The simultaneous activation of - and -ARs by their specific agonists mimicked the persistent facilitation of sIPSC frequency, which required extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 activation. These findings indicate that NA acts as a neurotrophic factor that strengthens GABAergic synaptic transmission in the developing cerebellar cortex and that -ARs temporally restrain the noradrenergic facilitation of sIPSCs after GABAergic synaptogenesis.
Protection of motoneurons is an important goal in the treatment of spinal cord injury (SCI). We tested whether neuroprotective microRNAs (miRs) like miR-206, miR-17, miR-21, miR-7-1, and miR-106a could enhance efficacy of estrogen receptor (ER) agonists such as 1,3,5-tris (4-hydroxyphenyl)-4-propyl-1H-pyrazole (PPT, ER agonist), Way200070 (WAY, ER agonist), and estrogen (EST, ER and ER agonist) in preventing apoptosis in the calcium ionophore (CI)-insulted ventral spinal cord 4.1 (VSC4.1) motoneurons. We determined that 200 nM CI induced 70% cell death. Treatment with 50 nM PPT, 100 nM WAY, and 150 nM EST induced overexpression of ER, ER, and both receptors, respectively, at mRNA and protein levels. Treatment with ER agonists significantly upregulated miR-206, miR-17, and miR-7-1 in the CI-insulted VSC4.1 motoneurons. Transfection with miR-206, miR-17, or miR-7-1 mimic potentiated WAY or EST to inhibit apoptosis in the CI-insulted VSC4.1 motoneurons. Overexpression of miR-7-1 maximally increased efficacy of WAY and EST for down regulation of pro-apoptotic Bax and upregulation of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2. A search using microRNA database (miRDB) indicated that miR-7-1 could inhibit the expression of L-type Ca(2+) channel protein alpha 1C (CP1C). miR-7-1 overexpression and WAY or EST treatment down regulated CP1C but upregulated p-Akt to trigger cell survival signaling. The same therapeutic strategy increased expression of the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II beta (CaMKII) and the phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (p-CREB) so as to promote Bcl-2 transcription. Whole cell membrane potential and mitochondrial membrane potential studies indicated that miR-7-1 highly potentiated EST to preserve functionality in the CI-insulted VSC4.1 motoneurons. In conclusion, our data indicated that miR-7-1 most significantly potentiated efficacy of EST for functional neuroprotection and this therapeutic strategy could be used in the future to attenuate apoptosis of motoneurons in SCI.
Under normal conditions, the acoustic pitch percept of a pure tone is determined mainly by the tonotopic place of the stimulation along the cochlea. Unlike acoustic stimulation, electric stimulation of a cochlear implant (CI) allows for the direct manipulation of the place of stimulation in human subjects. CI sound processors analyze the range of frequencies needed for speech perception and allocate portions of this range to the small number of electrodes distributed in the cochlea. Because the allocation is assigned independently of the original resonant frequency of the basilar membrane associated with the location of each electrode, CI users who have access to residual hearing in either or both ears often have tonotopic mismatches between the acoustic and electric stimulation. Here we demonstrate plasticity of place pitch representations of up to three octaves in Hybrid CI users after experience with combined electro-acoustic stimulation. The pitch percept evoked by single CI electrodes, measured relative to acoustic tones presented to the non-implanted ear, changed over time in directions that reduced the electro-acoustic pitch mismatch introduced by the CI programming. This trend was particularly apparent when the allocations of stimulus frequencies to electrodes were changed over time, with pitch changes even reversing direction in some subjects. These findings show that pitch plasticity can occur more rapidly and on a greater scale in the mature auditory system than previously thought possible. Overall, the results suggest that the adult auditory system can impose perceptual order on disordered arrays of inputs.
Allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC) belongs to a class of pregnane neurosteroidal compounds that enhance brain inhibition by interacting directly with GABAA signaling, mainly through an increase in tonic inhibitory current. Here, we addressed the role of THDOC in the modulation of interictal- and ictal-like activity and associated high-frequency oscillations (HFOs, 80-500 Hz; ripples: 80-200 Hz, fast ripples: 250-500 Hz) recorded in vitro in the rat piriform cortex, a highly excitable brain structure that is implicated in seizure generation and maintenance. We found that THDOC: (i) increased the duration of interictal discharges in the anterior piriform cortex while decreasing ictal discharge duration in both anterior and posterior piriform cortices; (ii) reduced the occurrence of HFOs associated to both interictal and ictal discharges; and (iii) prolonged the duration of 4-aminopyridine-induced, glutamatergic independent synchronous field potentials that are known to mainly result from the activation of GABAA receptors. Our results indicate that THDOC can modulate epileptiform synchronization in the piriform cortex presumably by potentiating GABAA receptor-mediated signaling. This evidence supports the view that neurosteroids regulate neuronal excitability and thus control the occurrence of seizures.
Nogo-A is a transmembrane protein originally discovered in myelin, produced by postnatal CNS oligodendrocytes. Nogo-A induces growth cone collapse and inhibition of axonal growth in the injured adult CNS. In the intact CNS, Nogo-A functions as a negative regulator of growth and plasticity. Nogo-A is also expressed by certain neurons. Neuronal Nogo-A depresses long-term potentiation in the hippocampus and modulates neurite adhesion and fasciculation during development in mice. Here we show that Nogo-A is present in neurons derived from human midbrain (Lund human mesencephalic (LUHMES) cell line), as well as in embryonic and postnatal mouse midbrain (dopaminergic) neurons. In LUHMES cells, Nogo-A was upregulated threefold upon differentiation and neurite extension. Nogo-A was localized intracellularly in differentiated LUHMES cells. Cultured midbrain (dopaminergic) neurons from Nogo-A knock-out mice exhibited decreased numbers of neurites and branches when compared with neurons from wild-type (WT) mice. However, this phenotype was not observed when the cultures from WT mice were treated with an antibody neutralizing plasma membrane Nogo-A. In vivo, neither the regeneration of nigrostriatal tyrosine hydroxylase fibers, nor the survival of nigral dopaminergic neurons after partial 6-hydroxydopamine lesions was affected by Nogo-A deletion. These results indicate that during maturation of cultured midbrain (dopaminergic) neurons, intracellular Nogo-A supports neurite growth initiation and branch formation.
Numerous studies have provided evidence regarding the involvement of protein S-nitrosylation in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology and its implication in the formation and accumulation of misfolded protein aggregates. The identification of S-nitrosylated proteins can be a major step toward the understanding of mechanisms leading to neuronal degeneration. The present study targeted S-nitrosylated proteins in AD hippocampus, substantia nigra and cortex using the following work-flow that combines S-nitrosothiol-specific antibody detection, classical biotin switch method labeled with fluorescence dye followed by electrospray ionization quadrupole time of flight tandem MS (ESI-QTOF MS/MS) identification. Endogenous nitrosocysteines were identified in 45 proteins, mainly involved in metabolism, signaling pathways, apoptosis and redox regulation as assigned by REACTOME and KEGG pathway database analysis. Superoxide dismutase (SOD2) [Mn], fructose-bisphosphate aldolase C (ALDOC) and voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein 2 (VDAC2) showed differential S-nitrosylation signal, not previously reported in AD regions. Extensive neuronal atrophy with increased protein S-nitrosylation in AD regions is also evident from immunofluorescence studies using S-nitrosocysteine antibody. A number of plausible cysteine modification sites were predicted via Group-based Prediction System-S-nitrosothiols (GPS-SNO) 1.0 while STRING 8.3 analysis revealed functional annotations in the modified proteins. The findings are helpful in characterization of functional abnormalities and may facilitate the understanding of molecular mechanisms and biological function of S-nitrosylation in AD pathology.
Exercising during pregnancy has been shown to improve spatial learning and short-term memory, as well as increase brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA levels and hippocampal cell survival in juvenile offspring. However, it remains unknown if these effects endure into adulthood. In addition, few studies have considered how maternal exercise can impact cognitive functions that do not rely on the hippocampus. To address these issues, the present study tested the effects of maternal exercise during pregnancy on object recognition memory, which relies on the perirhinal cortex (PER), in adult offspring. Pregnant rats were given access to a running wheel throughout gestation and the adult male offspring were subsequently tested in an object recognition memory task at three different time points, each spaced 2-weeks apart, beginning at 60 days of age. At each time point, offspring from exercising mothers were able to successfully discriminate between novel and familiar objects in that they spent more time exploring the novel object than the familiar object. The offspring of non-exercising mothers were not able to successfully discriminate between objects and spent an equal amount of time with both objects. A subset of rats was euthanized 1h after the final object recognition test to assess c-FOS expression in the PER. The offspring of exercising mothers had more c-FOS expression in the PER than the offspring of non-exercising mothers. By comparison, c-FOS levels in the adjacent auditory cortex did not differ between groups. These results indicate that maternal exercise during pregnancy can improve object recognition memory in adult male offspring and increase c-FOS expression in the PER; suggesting that exercise during the gestational period may enhance brain function of the offspring.
Adaptation is an important process of sensory systems to adjust sensitivity to ensure the appropriate information encoding. Sensitivity and kinetics of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) responses have been studied extensively using a brief flash superimposed on different but steady backgrounds. However, it is still unclear if light adaptation exerts any effect on more complex response properties, such as response nonlinearity. In this study, we found that the latency of spike responses to a repeated flashing spot stimulation increased by 30 ms in the mouse ON  RGCs (An ON-type RGC is excited when a spot is turned on in the center of its receptive field). A single dimming event preceding the test flash on a steady adapting background could also produce similar effect in increasing latency of light responses. A simple computational model with a linear transformation of the light stimulus and a threshold-like nonlinearity could account for the experimental data. Moreover, the strength of the measured nonlinearity and the response latency were affected by the duration of light adaptation. The possible biological processes underlying this nonlinearity were explored. Voltage clamp recording revealed the presence of the increase in latency and threshold-like nonlinearity in the excitatory input of RGCs. However, no comparable nonlinearity was observed in the light responses of the ON cone bipolar cells. We further excluded GABAergic and glycinergic inhibition, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor rectification and voltage-gated Na(+) channels as potential sources of this nonlinearity by pharmacological experiments. Our results indicate the bipolar cell terminals as the potential site of nonlinearity. Computational modeling constrained by experimental data supports that conclusion and suggests the voltage-sensitive Ca(++) channels and Ca(++)-dependent vesicle release in the bipolar cell terminals as mechanistic basis.
In the trigeminal ganglion (TG), satellite glial cells (SGCs) form a functional unit with neurons. It has been proposed that SGCs participate in regulating extracellular glutamate levels and that dysfunction of this SGC capacity can impact nociceptive transmission in craniofacial pain conditions. This study investigated whether SGCs release glutamate and whether elevation of TG glutamate concentration alters response properties of trigeminal afferent fibers. Immunohistochemistry was used to assess glutamate content and the expression of excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT)1 and EAAT2 in TG sections. SGCs contained glutamate and expressed EAAT1 and EAAT2. Potassium chloride (10 mM) was used to evoke glutamate release from cultured rat SGCs treated with the EAAT1/2 inhibitor (3S)-3-[[3-[[4-(trifluoromethyl)ben zoyl]amino]phenyl]methoxy]-L-aspartic acid (TFB-TBOA) or control. Treatment with TFB-TBOA (1 and 10 M) significantly reduced the glutamate concentration from 10.6  1.1 to 5.8  1.4 M and 3.0  0.8 M, respectively (p&lt;0.05). Electrophysiology experiments were conducted in anaesthetized rats to determine the effect of intraganglionic injections of glutamate on the response properties of ganglion neurons that innervated either the temporalis or masseter muscle. Intraganglionic injection of glutamate (500 mM, 3 l) evoked afferent discharge and significantly reduced muscle afferent mechanical threshold. Glutamate-evoked discharge was attenuated bythe N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) and increased by TFB-TBOA, whereas mechanical sensitization was only sensitive to APV. Antidromic invasion of muscle afferent fibers by electrical stimulation of the caudal brainstem (10 Hz) or local anesthesia of the brainstem with lidocaine did not alter glutamate-induced mechanical sensitization. These findings provide a novel mechanism whereby dysfunctional trigeminal SGCs could contribute to cranial muscle tenderness in craniofacial pain conditions such as migraine headache.
Mitochondrial division inhibitor 1 (mdivi-1), a selective inhibitor of mitochondrial fission protein dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1), has been reported to display neuroprotective properties in different animal models. In the present study, we investigated the protective effect of mdivi-1 on -amyloid protein (A)-induced cytotoxicity and its potential mechanisms in BV-2 and primary microglial cells. We found that mitochondrial fission was increased in A treatment and inhibition of mitochondrial fission by mdivi-1 significantly reduced A-induced expression of CD11b (a marker of microglial activation), viability loss and apoptotic rate increase in BV-2 and primary microglial cells. Moreover, we also found that mdivi-1 treatment markedly reversed mitochondrial membrane potential loss, cytochrome c (CytC) release and caspase-3 activation. Altogether, our data suggested that mdivi-1 exerts neuroprotective effects against A-induced microglial apoptosis, and the underlying mechanism may be through inhibiting mitochondrial membrane potential loss, CytC release and suppression of the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway.
This study was designed to examine the effect of voluntary exercise on hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) in morphine-dependent rats. The rats were randomly distributed into the saline-sedentary (Sal/Sed), the dependent-sedentary, the saline-exercise (Sal/Exc), and the dependent-exercise (D/Exc) groups. The Sal/Exc and the D/Exc groups were allowed to freely exercise in a running wheel for 10 days. The Sal/Sed and the morphine-sedentary groups were kept sedentary for the same extent of time. Morphine (10 mg/kg) was injected bi-daily (12 h interval) during 10 days of voluntary exercise. On day 11, 2h after the morphine injection, the in vivo LTP in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus was examined. The theta frequency primed bursts were delivered to the perforant path for induction of LTP. Population spike (PS) amplitude and the field excitatory post-synaptic potentials (fEPSP) slope were measured as indices of increase in synaptic efficacy. Chronic morphine increased the mean basal EPSP, and augmented PS-LTP. Exercise significantly increased the mean baseline EPSP and PS responses, and augmented PS-LTP in both saline and morphine-treated groups. Moreover, the increase of PS-LTP in the morphine-exercise group was greater (22.5%), but not statistically significant, than that of the Sal/Exc group. These results may imply an additive effect between exercise and morphine on mechanisms of synaptic plasticity. Such an interaction between exercise and chronic morphine may influence cognitive functions in opiate addicts.
A shift in GABA(A) signaling from inhibition to excitation in primary afferent neurons appears to contribute to the inflammation-induced increase in afferent input to the CNS. An activity-dependent depolarization of the GABA(A) current equilibrium potential (E(GABA)) has been described in CNS neurons which drives a shift in GABA(A) signaling from inhibition to excitation. The purpose of the present study was to determine if such an activity-dependent depolarization of E(GABA) occurs in primary afferents and whether the depolarization is amplified with persistent inflammation. Acutely dissociated retrogradely labeled cutaneous dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from nave and inflamed rats were studied with gramicidin perforated patch recording. Rather than a depolarization, 200 action potentials delivered at 2 Hz resulted in a 10 mV hyperpolarization of E(GABA) in cutaneous neurons from nave rats. No such hyperpolarization was observed in neurons from inflamed rats. The shift in E(GABA) was not blocked by 10 M bumetanide. Furthermore, because activity-dependent hyperpolarization of E(GABA) was fully manifest in the absence of HCO in the bath solution, this shift was not dependent on a change in HCO-Cl exchanger activity, despite evidence of HCO-Cl exchangers in DRG neurons that may contribute to the establishment of E(GABA) in the presence of HCO. While the mechanism underlying the activity-dependent hyperpolarization of E(GABA) has yet to be identified, because this mechanism appears to function as a form of feedback inhibition, facilitating GABA-mediated inhibition of afferent activity, it may serve as a novel target for the treatment of inflammatory pain.
-Synuclein is the major component of Lewy bodies. -Synuclein phosphorylated at Ser 129 (Phospho--Syn) is the most common synuclein modification observed in Parkinson's disease pathology and transgenic animal models. Polo-like kinase 2 (PLK2) was previously proposed as an important kinase in -synuclein phosphorylation at Ser129. To better understand the role of PLK2 in -synuclein phosphorylation in vivo, we further evaluated the effect of PLK2 genetic knockdown and pharmacological inhibition on Phospho--Syn levels in different brain regions of PLK2 knockout (KO), heterozygous (Het) and wild-type (WT) mice. Whereas PLK2 knockdown had no effect on Total--synuclein brain levels, it resulted in a gene-dosage dependent, albeit incomplete, reduction of endogenous Phospho--Syn levels in all brain regions investigated. No compensatory induction of other -synuclein kinases (PLK3, casein kinase-2, G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 5 (GRK5) and GRK6) was observed at the mRNA level in the PLK2 KO mouse brain. To determine whether increased activity of another PLK family member is responsible for the residual Phospho--Syn levels in the PLK2 KO mouse brain, the pan-PLK inhibitor BI 2536 was tested in PLK2 KO mice. Whereas BI 2536 reduced Phospho--Syn levels in WT mice, it did not further reduce the residual endogenous Phospho--Syn levels in PLK2 KO and Het mice, suggesting that a kinase other than PLK1-3 accounts for the remaining PLK inhibitor-resistant pool in the mouse brain. Moreover, PLK3 KO in mice had no effect on both Total- and Phospho--Syn brain levels. These results support a significant role for a PLK kinase in phosphorylating -synuclein at Ser129 in the brain, and suggest that PLK2 is responsible for this activity under physiological conditions.
Children with low aerobic fitness have altered brain function compared to higher-fit children. This study examined the effect of an 8-month exercise intervention on resting state synchrony. Twenty-two sedentary, overweight (body mass index 85th percentile) children 8-11 years old were randomly assigned to one of two after-school programs: aerobic exercise (n=13) or sedentary attention control (n=9). Before and after the 8-month programs, all subjects participated in resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging scans. Independent components analysis identified several networks, with four chosen for between-group analysis: salience, default mode, cognitive control, and motor networks. The default mode, cognitive control, and motor networks showed more spatial refinement over time in the exercise group compared to controls. The motor network showed increased synchrony in the exercise group with the right medial frontal gyrus compared to controls. Exercise behavior may enhance brain development in children.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by progressive dopamine (DA) depletion in the striatum. Exercise has been shown to be a promising non-pharmacological approach to reduce the risk of neurodegeneration diseases. This study was designed to investigate the potential neuroprotective effect of swimming training (ST) in a mouse model of PD induced by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in mice. The present study demonstrated that a 4-week ST was effective in attenuating the following impairments resulting from 6-OHDA exposure: (i) depressive-like behavior in the tail suspension test; (ii) increase in the number of falls in the rotarod test; (iii) impairment on long-term memory in the object recognition test; (iv) increase of the reactive species and interleukin 1-beta (IL-1) levels; (v) inhibition of the glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity; (vi) rise of the glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities and vii) decrease of DA, homovanillic acid (HVA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels. The mechanisms involved in this study are the modulation of GPx, GR and GST activities as well as IL-1 level in a PD model induced by 6-OHDA, protecting against the decrease of DA, DOPAC and HVA levels in the striatum of mice. These findings reinforce that one of the effects induced by exercise on neurodegenerative disease, such as PD, is due to antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. We suggest that exercise attenuates cognitive and motor declines, depression, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation induced by 6-OHDA supporting the hypothesis that exercise can be used as a non-pharmacological tool to reduce the symptoms of PD.
Neuroethics applies cognitive neuroscience for prescribing alterations to conceptions of self and society, and for prescriptively judging the ethical applications of neurotechnologies. Plentiful normative premises are available to ground such prescriptivity, however prescriptive neuroethics may remain fragmented by social conventions, cultural ideologies, and ethical theories. Herein we offer that an objectively principled neuroethics for international relevance requires a new meta-ethics: understanding how morality works, and how humans manage and improve morality, as objectively based on the brain and social sciences. This new meta-ethics will simultaneously equip neuroethics for evaluating and revising older cultural ideologies and ethical theories, and direct neuroethics towards scientifically valid views of encultured humans intelligently managing moralities. Bypassing absolutism, cultural essentialisms, and unrealistic ethical philosophies, neuroethics arrives at a small set of principles about proper human flourishing that are more culturally inclusive and cosmopolitan in spirit. This cosmopolitanism in turn suggests augmentations to traditional medical ethics in the form of four principled guidelines for international consideration: empowerment, non-obsolescence, self-creativity, and citizenship.
This review summarises the evidence that chronic low grade inflammation plays an important role in the pathology of depression. Evidence is provided that pro-inflammatory cytokines, together with dysfunctional endocrine and neurotransmitter systems, provide a network of changes that underlie depression and may ultimately contribute to the neurodegenerative changes that characterise depression in the elderly. Antidepressants attenuate the inflammatory changes and hypercortisolaemia by reducing the release of the pro-inflammatory cytokines from activated microglia, and by sensitizing the glucocorticoids receptors in the HPA axis. These effects correlate with an improvement in monoamine neurotransmitter function. The possible mechanisms whereby this cascade of changes occurs are outlined. In conclusion, the mechanisms whereby antidepressants act should now consider the involvement of the immune and endocrine systems in addition to the central neurotransmitters. This may open up possibilities for a new generation of antidepressants in the future.
The involvement of immune system activation in the pathophysiology of certain psychiatric disorders is well documented. Inflammatory molecules such as pro-inflammatory cytokines could enhance the activity of the indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) enzyme which is the first rate-limiting enzyme of the tryptophan degradation pathway, the kynurenine pathway. The increased tryptophan degradation could induce serotonin depletion and depressive mood. On the other hand, the downstream metabolites from this pathway, such as 3-hydroxykynurenine, quinolinic acid and kynurenic acid, are neuroactive metabolites which can modulate several neurotransmissions, such as glutamatergic, GABAergic, dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurotransmissions, which in turn induce changes in neuronal-glial network and neuropsychiatric consequences. In this issue, we have revised the previous 'neurodegeneration hypothesis,' which explained the involvement of cytokines and IDO pathway interaction in depression, with a further extended view related to the network beyond IDO, the network between immune molecules, tryptophan metabolites and different neurotransmitters, in depression and other major psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and childhood psychiatric disorders.
Investigating the living brain remains one of the major obstacles in psychiatry research in order to better understand the biological underpinning of brain disorders. Novel approaches are needed to study brain functions indirectly. Since it is part of the central nervous system, retinal functions as measured with the flash electroretinogram (ERG) may reflect the central dysfunctions reported in psychiatric disorders. This review describes the flash ERG anomalies reported in patients with psychiatric disorders such as seasonal affective disorder, schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorder and drug addiction and discusses how changes in retinal functions might be used as biomarkers for psychiatric disorder as well as a potential aid to diagnosis in psychiatry.
Adolescents and young adults disproportionately abuse 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 'Ecstasy'); however, since most MDMA research has concentrated on adults, the effects of MDMA on the developing brain remain obscure. Therefore, we evaluated place conditioning to MDMA (or saline) during late adolescence and assessed anxiety-like behavior and monoamine levels during abstinence. Rats were conditioned to associate 5 or 10mg/kg MDMA or saline with contextual cues over 4 twice-daily sessions. Five days after conditioning, anxiety-like behavior was examined with the open field test and brain tissue was collected to assess serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the dorsal raphe, amygdala, and hippocampus by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). In a separate group of rats, anxiety-like and avoidant behaviors were measured using the light-dark box test under similar experimental conditions. MDMA conditioning caused a place aversion at 10, but not at 5, mg/kg, as well as increased anxiety-like behavior in the open field and avoidant behavior in light-dark box test at the same dose. Additionally, 10mg/kg MDMA decreased 5-HT in the dorsal raphe, increased 5-HT and 5-HIAA in the amygdala, and did not alter levels in the hippocampus. Overall, we show that repeated high (10mg/kg), but not low (5mg/kg), dose MDMA during late adolescence in rats increases anxiety-like and avoidant behaviors, accompanied by region-specific alterations in 5-HT levels during abstinence. These results suggest that MDMA causes a region-specific dysregulation of the serotonin system during adolescence that may contribute to maladaptive behavior.
Synaptic dysfunction has recently gained attention for its involvement in mood disorders. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) possibly plays a role in synaptic repair. However, the underlying mechanisms remain uncertain. Thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1), a member of the TSP family, is reported to be secreted by astrocytes and to regulate synaptogenesis. We investigated the effects of electroconvulsive seizure (ECS) on the expression of TSPs in the adult rat hippocampus. Single and repeated ECS significantly increased TSP-1 mRNA expression after 2h and returned to sham levels at 24h. Conversely, the TSP-2 and -4 mRNA levels did not change. Only repeated ECS induced TSP-1 proteins. ECS also induced glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression. The GFAP expression occurred later than the TSP-1 mRNA expression following single ECS; however, it occurred earlier and was more persistent following repeated ECS. ECS had no effect on the 2-1 or neuroligin-1 expressions, both of which are TSP-1 receptors. Furthermore, chronic treatment with antidepressants did not induce the expression of TSP-1 or GFAP. These findings suggest that repeated ECS, but not chronic treatment with antidepressants, induces TSP-1 expression partially via the activation of astrocytes. Therefore, TSP-1 is possibly involved in the synaptogenic effects of ECS.




Joubert syndrome (JBTS) is a recessive ciliopathy in which a subset of affected individuals also have the skeletal dysplasia Jeune asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy (JATD). Here, we have identified biallelic truncating CSPP1 (centrosome and spindle pole associated protein 1) mutations in 19 JBTS-affected individuals, four of whom also have features of JATD. CSPP1 mutations explain 5% of JBTS in our cohort, and despite truncating mutations in all affected individuals, the range of phenotypic severity is broad. Morpholino knockdown of cspp1 in zebrafish caused phenotypes reported in other zebrafish models of JBTS (curved body shape, pronephric cysts, and cerebellar abnormalities) and reduced ciliary localization of Arl13b, further supporting loss of CSPP1 function as a cause of JBTS. Fibroblasts from affected individuals with CSPP1 mutations showed reduced numbers of primary cilia and/or short primary cilia, as well as reduced axonemal localization of ciliary proteins ARL13B and adenylyl cyclase III. In summary, CSPP1 mutations are a major cause of the Joubert-Jeune phenotype in humans; however, the mechanism by which these mutations lead to both JBTS and JATD remains unknown.
Joubert syndrome and related disorders (JSRDs) are genetically heterogeneous and characterized by a distinctive mid-hindbrain malformation. Causative mutations lead to primary cilia dysfunction, which often results in variable involvement of other organs such as the liver, retina, and kidney. We identified predicted null mutations in CSPP1 in six individuals affected by classical JSRDs. CSPP1 encodes a protein localized to centrosomes and spindle poles, as well as to the primary cilium. Despite the known interaction between CSPP1 and nephronophthisis-associated proteins, none of the affected individuals in our cohort presented with kidney disease, and further, screening of a large cohort of individuals with nephronophthisis demonstrated no mutations. CSPP1 is broadly expressed in neural tissue, and its encoded protein localizes to the primary cilium in an invitro model of human neurogenesis. Here, we show abrogated protein levels and ciliogenesis in affected fibroblasts. Our data thus suggest that CSPP1 is involved in neural-specific functions of primary cilia.
Ten to fifteen percent of couples are confronted with infertility and a male factor is involved in approximately half the cases. A genetic etiology is likely in most cases yet only few genes have been formally correlated with male infertility. Homozygosity mapping was carried out on a cohort of 20 North African individuals, including 18 index cases, presenting with primary infertility resulting from impaired sperm motility caused by a mosaic of multiple morphological abnormalities of the flagella (MMAF) including absent, short, coiled, bent, and irregular flagella. Five unrelated subjects out of 18 (28%) carried a homozygous variant in DNAH1, which encodes an inner dynein heavy chain and is expressed in testis. RT-PCR, immunostaining, and electronic microscopy were carried out on samples from one of the subjects with a mutation located on a donor splice site. Neither the transcript nor the protein was observed in this individual, confirming the pathogenicity of this variant. A general axonemal disorganization including mislocalization of the microtubule doublets and loss of the inner dynein arms was observed. Although DNAH1 is also expressed in other ciliated cells, infertility was the only symptom of primary ciliary dyskinesia observed in affected subjects, suggesting that DNAH1 function in cilium is not as critical as in sperm flagellum.
Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) comprises a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders with progressive extrapyramidal signs and neurological deterioration, characterized by iron accumulation in the basal ganglia. Exome sequencing revealed the presence of recessive missense mutations in COASY, encoding coenzyme A (CoA) synthase in one NBIA-affected subject. A second unrelated individual carrying mutations in COASY was identified by Sanger sequence analysis. CoA synthase is a bifunctional enzyme catalyzing the final steps of CoA biosynthesis by coupling phosphopantetheine with ATP to form dephospho-CoA and its subsequent phosphorylation to generate CoA. We demonstrate alterations in RNA and protein expression levels of CoA synthase, as well as CoA amount, in fibroblasts derived from the two clinical cases and in yeast. This is the second inborn error of coenzyme A biosynthesis to be implicated in NBIA.




Nutritive Sucking (NS) is a highly organized process that is essential for infants' feeding during the first six months of their life. It requires the complex coordination of sucking, swallowing and breathing. The infant's inability to perform a safe and successful oral feeding can be an early detector of immaturity of the Central Nervous System (CNS). Even though the importance of early sucking measures has been confirmed over the years, the need for standardized instrumental assessment tools still exists. Clinicians would benefit from specifically designed devices to assess oral feeding ability in their routine clinical monitoring and decision-making process. This work is a review of the main instrumental solutions developed to assess an infant's NS behavior, with a detailed survey of the main quantities and indices measured and/or estimated to characterize sucking behavior skills and their development. The adopted sensing measuring systems will be described, and their main advantages and weaknesses will be discussed, taking into account their application to clinical practice, or to at-home monitoring as post-discharge assessment tools. Finally, the study will highlight the most suitable sensing solutions and give some prompts for further research.
The inhabitants of cities and large towns are largely unaware of the constant battle that rural communities have to wage against flies. In rural areas, on the other hand, inhabitants do not always appreciate the crucial role that dung beetles play in controlling dung-breeding fly populations. Not only do dung beetles play an important role in the destruction of the habitat of many dung-breeding flies (Heinrich and Bartholomew 1979), but by burying and dispersing dung, the coprophagous fauna associated with mammals is also responsible for returning a large proportion of plant nutrients to the soil (e.g., Bornemissza and Williams 1970). Serious problems have been experienced in the cattle farming areas of Australia where cattle were introduced without the associated insect fauna. The dung pats left by cattle become the habitat of dung-breeding flies, some of which are blood-feeding pests and carriers of serious diseases (Hughes 1970). This resulted in the uncontrolled increase of fly populations and the deterioration of pastures in parts of that continent. It has been estimated that cow pats are responsible for the reduction of pasture, albeit only temporarily, by about 20% per animal per year (Waterhouse 1974). During the 1950s, George Bornemissza hypothesized that the introduction of foreign dung beetle species that are able to remove and bury cattle dung would aid not only Australias soil fertility by recycling the dung nutrients back into the ground, but would also reduce the number of pestilent flies and parasitic worms that use the dung pats as a breeding resource. In 1965, this idea culminated in the establishment of the Australian Dung Beetle Project, and eventually 43 dung beetle species were imported from Africa and other continents in order to combat the fly problem (Wikipedia August 2012). The introduction of exotic dung beetles and their subsequent establishment in Australia was a highly successful venture and largely solved the fly problem in many parts of the continent. The emergence of problems similar to those in Australia is now also being observed in other countries. The destruction of the habitat of large mammals by urbanization and modern farming practices invariably results in dwindling numbers of dung beetles and an increase in numbers of flies during the warm summer months. The importance of this process is vividly illustrated in rural areas in Africa where visitors to game reserves with normal herbivore populations are rarely bothered by flies during the summer when dung beetle activity reaches its peak, whereas in small settlements a few kilometers outside these reserves the indigenous people are plagued by swarms of flies. Extensive research has been devoted to the ecology, ethology, and evolution of dung beetles, notably by Bornemissza, Halffter, and their coworkers. Recently, Simmons and Ridsdill-Smith (2011) edited a wide-ranging review of the literature on the ecology and evolution of dung beetles. Although it is estimated that there are more than 4000 dung beetle species in Africa alone, the olfactory ecology of dung beetles remains a largely unexplored yet potentially very fertile research field. Little research has been carried out on the chemical aspects of the ecology of dung beetles, and practically no information was available on the existence, the modes of operation, and the chemical structures of sex attractants of dung beetles before the work discussed in this chapter commenced in 1978. On the basis of their nesting behavior, dung beetles of the subfamily Scarabaeinae can be divided into three groups: The paracoprids construct their nests under a dung pat by excavating tunnels in which the dung is packed; the endocoprids excavate a chamber in the dung pat itself, forming brood balls within this chamber; and the telecoprids detach a portion of dung from the pat, rolling it some distance from the dung source before burying it. The majority of dung beetles species in southern Africa are mainly crepuscular paracoprids (87%) (Halffter and Matthews 1966). The diurnal telecoprids are also numerous, but are represented by fewer species (12%) (Ferreira 1972). Larvae and adults of the majority of species of the subfamily Scarabaeinae are coprophagous, and are morphologically adapted to feed on vertebrate excrement (Halffter and Matthews 1966). Adult dung beetles ingest only the liquid or colloidal constituents of the dung by squeezing portions of the moist dung between highly specialized membranous mandibles and ingesting the expressed juice. There are differences in the courtship, mating, and brooding behavior of the Scarabaeinae species. Telecoprids prepare a brood ball from fresh dung, roll the ball to an apparently carefully selected spot at a distance from the dung pat or dung midden, where the female deposits an egg in a chamber constructed at the top of the dung ball. The larva feeds on whole dung particles with the aid of its chewing mouthparts until eventually it pupates (Waterhouse 1974). The next generation, as well as the adult beetles that have overwintered in the soil, emerge from the soil after the first summer rains when temperatures are high enough for habitation and when the soil is moist enough for the beetles to break free from the brood chamber or from the hard soil. Dung beetles are attracted to dung on which they feed, and after a feeding period of a few weeks the beetles that have overwintered in the soil and those that breed in their first season are ready to start breeding. Dung beetles utilize volatile compounds emitted by dung to locate a fresh source of a species preferred dung type, although dung beetles are apparently not linked exclusively to one type of dung (Dormont et al. 2004, 2007). In areas with intact ecology, dung beetles of many species arrive in the thousands at a dung pat or rhinoceros midden. There is fierce competition for fresh dung between the beetles. Even in the case of the large volumes of dung voided by, for example, rhinoceros, dung beetles manage to dehydrate the dung or to bury or disperse it within a few hours. A photograph of rhinoceros dung voided during the night in the Mkuzi Game Reserve, South Africa, is shown in Figure 3.1a. At about 10:00 the following morning during a sampling period of 20 minutes, 720 dung beetles were recorded arriving at this resource. The entire dung heap appeared to be in constant movement from the activity of thousands of beetles, resulting in the formation of an almost uniform mixture of dung and dung beetles. By that stage, it was already too late for the larger species to gather enough of the already half-dried-out dung for the formation of a brood ball. In the foreground in Figure 3.1a, the last beetles that had managed to form a dung balls can be seen rolling them away. By 15:00 in the afternoon most of the dung was buried underneath the dung or next to it, or rolled away, and only relatively dry plant material was left at this spot.
For insects, finding of a mate or a food source relies often chiefly on olfactory information. The identification of a specific mate or host involves the recognition of a specific odor blend and its discrimination from a complex and changing background. Their highly efficient olfactory systems have evolved to detect behaviorally relevant compounds with a high sensitivity and properly decode the olfactory message to finally lead to adapted behaviors (Martin et al. 2011). Moth sex pheromones, for instance, are precisely defined blends that trigger innate and stable behavioral responses in physiologically competent individuals. We begin this chapter with a description of the general organization of the insect olfactory system from the olfactory organs to the brain (Section 2.2). We will then consider the neuronal bases of the coding of pheromone and general odors (Section 2.3). The chemical specificity of the detection is at first based on the specificity of olfactory receptors (ORs) expressed in precise types of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) to detect individual compounds. But to insects as to other organisms, biologically relevant odors are often blends of volatile compounds whose perception involves progressive integration of the input in the central nervous system (CNS). In the wild, different sources release their volatiles simultaneously and their components intermingle to form a complex and fluctuating olfactory environment. Interactions between odor components, or their resulting neural codes, take place at the different levels of the sensory system and are intrinsic to olfaction. Section 2.4 will consider how insects recognize odor multicomponent blends in such chemical complexity. To be pertinent, the response of insects to odors must integrate the physiological and sensory contexts. Even strongly determined odor-guided behaviors are modulated by underlying changes in the internal physiological state of the animal and many behaviors are multimodal (Section 2.5). Very often chemical signals vary in an unpredictable way for the receiver and the chemical environment in which the signal is released is rather complex and changing. Previous experiences also modify the processing of odor signals and the associated behavioral responses. In the last section (Section 2.6), we consider the processing of olfactory signals under the influences of the ecological context and the individual history. Outstanding progress in our understanding of insect olfaction has been accomplished through numerous experimental studies conducted in parallel on several model species, like bees, flies, or moths with their specificities. Although belonging to quite different groups, with diversity in their biology and phylogenetical origin, these model species share many of the general traits of organization of their olfactory system. However, making a synthesis would have been impossible due to the abundance of the literature and the risks of raising specific adaptations to general facts. I arbitrarily chose to focus this chapter on moths. Reproduction in that nocturnal Lepidoptera offers the advantage of providing cases for a highly determined sex pheromone communication system, and a more plastic use of olfaction for feeding and oviposition. Thus, most of the examples herein have been taken from moths and completed by data collected from other classical model insect species when relevant.
Olfaction in insects has been intensely studied to address fundamental questions in sensory biology. It has yielded surprising answers and insights into reception of sensory stimuli, sensory coding, and the architecture and function of the neural circuits that drive behavior. Drosophila melanogaster is an experimentally tractable model organism that can teach us much about how insects use their senses of smell and taste to communicate, to find the hosts from which they feed, and to find sites for laying eggs. Drosophila is a member of the Diptera. The Diptera include flies and mosquitoes that transmit some of the most serious communicable diseases such as malaria, dengue fever, leishmaniasis, and African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness in humans). An understanding of how Diptera use olfactory cues to seek their hosts and to communicate with mating partners may have medical and economic impact if this knowledge can be translated to develop new technologies, or improve existing technologies, for pest control. In addition, courtship in Drosophila has emerged as a model for how chemicals are received in the sense organs and then perceived through processing in the neural circuits of the brain. Superficially simple, the interaction of flies in courtship and other behaviorsincluding aggressionturns out to be remarkably complex and modifiable by experience and learning. Pheromones are chemicals released by an organism to which a conspecific responds either behaviorally or physiologically. Hydrocarbons in the cuticle may be important in interindividual recognition of species and gender in many insects, and in social insects they additionally may act in recognition of colony membership, nestmates, caste, and kin (Howard and Blomquist 2005). Due to their low volatility, it is generally assumed that cuticular hydrocarbons act on contact and are perceived through the taste organs, and recent studies have confirmed the involvement of taste in pheromone detection (Miyamoto and Amrein 2008; Montell 2009). However, using a stimulus method that mimics the proximity of two interacting insects, it was shown in Drosophila that extracts of flies stimulate the olfactory system at close range (Van der Goes van Naters and Carlson 2007). This chapter focuses on how candidate volatile pheromones in Drosophila are received by the sense organs and discusses recent advances in our understanding of how olfactory information modulates the flies behavior towards each other.
Whether pheromone signaling exists in humans is still a matter of intense discussion. Emerging brain imaging studies suggest sexually dimorphic neuronal response to certain chemosignals, which, according to psychophysical data, possess pheromone-like properties. There are also indications that the neuronal response to these compounds depends on sexual orientation. Furthermore, our brain seems to be able to extract kin-specific signals, and processes body odors differently than other perceptually similar odors. Together, this data sheds new light on the chemosensory perception in humans and the implications thereof are discussed.
Together with the honey bee dance, honey bee pheromones represent one of the most advanced ways of communication among social insects.
It is believed that the first illustration of the vomeronasal organ (VNO) was provided by Frederic Ruysh, a Dutch anatomist, in a drawing of the nasal septum of a young man (Ruysh 1703). About one century later the human VNO was also drawn by Samuel Semmering (Semmering 1809). Only the VNO of nonhuman animals will be considered in the following.
Chemical senses are probably among the first senses to have evolved and all cellular life forms from bacteria to animals are sensitive to chemical information, whether it comes from potential food, predators, the environment, or other members of the same species. Chemicals from outside the organism that provide information are termed semiochemicals (Figure 1.1). With the chemical senses in place it was perhaps inevitable that chemical communication would evolve. Pheromones are evolved chemical signals between members of the same species. The molecules are emitted by an individual and received by a second individual of the same species, in which they cause a specific reaction, for example, a stereotyped behavior or a developmental process (Wyatt 2010, after Karlson &amp; Lscher 1959). The word pheromone was coined from the Greek pherein, to carry or transfer, and hormn, to excite or stimulate. While Karlson and Lscher (1959) proposed the word after the first pheromone had been identified in an insect, the silk moth Bombyx mori, they suggested the term would apply to chemical signals in all types of animal from crustaceans to fish to terrestrial mammals. Equally, while the silk moth pheromone was a single molecule, pheromones consisting of many molecules together were not excluded. Karlson and Lscher anticipated that different species might share some of the same molecules. No requirement was made for pheromone responses to be innate. I emphasize these points only because some authors writing about mammals raise these as objections to applying the term to mammal pheromones (e.g., Doty 2010; Petrulis 2013). As I argue below, pheromones are found across the animal kingdom and while mammal pheromones are hard to study, we do have many examples that seem robust (see for example Schaal et al. 2003; Schaal,Chapter 17). Even so, criticisms of some claims in the literature are justified. We should also be careful to distinguish phenomena mediated by pheromones from olfactory phenomena that have more to do with differences between individuals chemical profiles, allowing individuals to be distinguished (see below). As well as pheromones, animals also receive chemical information about the identity of another individual. The receiving animal may learn a signature mixture: a variable chemical mixture (a subset of the molecules given off in an animals chemical profile) learned as a template by other conspecifics and used to recognize an animal as an individual (e.g., lobsters, mice) or as a member of a particular social group such as a family, clan, or colony (e.g., ants, bees, badgers) (Figures 1.1 and 1.2) (Wyatt 2010, 2014). The signature mixture is the mix of molecules (and likely, their relative ratios) that are learned. The template is the neural representation of the signature mixture stored in the memory of the learner (after van Zweden &amp; dEttorre 2010). There are two distinguishing characteristics of signature mixtures: first, a requirement for learning, and second, the variability of the cues learned, allowing other individuals to be distinguished by their different chemical profiles (Wyatt 2014). There are many biological systems where distinguishing between pheromones and learned highly variable signature mixtures can help our understanding. For example, each ant colony has different combinations of molecules, largely cuticular hydrocarbons, which can be learned as signature mixtures allowing ants to discriminate between colony members and noncolony members (Bos &amp; dEttorre dEttorre 2012). Every queen of the species, however, has the same queen pheromone (Liebig 2010). In the ant Lasius niger, the queen pheromone is the cuticular hydrocarbon 3-methylhentriacontane, missing from worker profiles (Holman et al. 2010). Similarly, explaining a phenomenon such as the Bruce effect in mice (Brennan 2009; Mucignat-Caretta,Chapter 11) is easier if we distinguish between the individually distinct odors of different males and the pheromone(s) that all male mice produce. The females memory of the signature mixture of the particular male she mated with has the effect of blocking any stimulus from later contact with his male pheromones whereas the stimulus from the same male pheromones of other, unfamiliar males passes through to the hypothalamus, triggering the Bruce effect. Pheromones and the molecules learned as signature mixtures appear in the cloud of molecules that make up the chemical profile of an organism (Figure 1.2). Much of the chemical profile is highly variable from individual to individual. The sources of the molecules in the chemical profile include the animals own secretions as well as its environment, food, bacteria, and other individuals. It is this complex background that makes identifying pheromones so challenging in many organisms. Semiochemicals can also be significant to individuals from other species and these are termed allelochemicals (Figure 1.1) (Nordlund &amp; Lewis 1976). Broadcast signals can be eavesdropped, as kairomones. Some of the most spectacular examples of using such kairomones come from predatory beetles homing in on the aggregation pheromones released by their prey, bark beetles (Raffa 2001). Eavesdropping can occur across taxa. Nematode-trapping fungi detect the pheromones of their prey nematodes and produce more traps in response (Hsueh et al. 2013). Aggressive chemical mimicry (allomones) can exploit the responses of organisms to their own pheromones (Vereecken &amp; McNeil 2010). For example, most orchids offer no nectar reward but instead, by mimicking the female pheromones of the insect, they attract bee and wasp males to pollinate them. Bolas spiders lure male moths by producing the moths female sex pheromone. In this introductory chapter, I will touch on many classic systems such as moths, Drosophila, and mice, which are explored in more detail in the other chapters of this book, but I will also take the opportunity to illustrate points with the pheromones of other animal taxa such as nematodes, mollusks, and fish. For this introductory chapter, I have usually chosen recent references that will lead you to the relevant literature. More detail on the topics covered in this chapter can be found in Wyatt (2014).
In most species, there are two chemosensory systems, both located in the nasal cavity but physiologically and anatomically distinct (Figure 10.1). The main olfactory epithelium (MOE) is principally involved in the airborne odor perception, whereas the vomeronasal organ (VNO) of Jacobson in the detection of pheromones that are chemical compounds secreted or excreted by individuals of the same species (conspecifics) (Dulac &amp; Torello 2003; Tirindelli et al. 2009). Deficits in social and reproductive behavior are marked in animals underlying the surgical removal of the VNO but also the chemical inactivation of the MOE (Kiyokawa et al. 2007; Kolunie &amp; Stern 1995; Leypold et al. 2002; Wysocki &amp; Lepri 1991). Furthermore, there is evidence that two olfactory structures, namely the septal organ of Masera and the Grueneberg ganglion also contribute to pheromone detection (Ma 2007; Roppolo et al. 2006; Tirindelli et al. 2009) (Figure 10.1). Primary sensory VNO neurons (VSNs) send axons to mitral cells in the glomerular region of the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB), whereas olfactory neurons (OSNs) to the mitral cells of the main olfactory bulb (MOB) (Baum &amp; Kelliher 2009; Clapham &amp; Neer 1997) (Figure 10.1). The chemosensory neurons of the VNO and MOE are equipped with specific receptors that activate distinct molecular cascades and mediate sociosexual behaviors (Del Punta et al. 2002; Stowers et al. 2002). The anatomical components of the VNO firstly developed in a tetrapod ancestor and led to the appearance of a rudimentary structure in amphibians that became highly organized in Squamata and in many mammalian orders as Didelphimorphia, Rodentia, and in primates (prosimians and New World monkeys). In contrast, VNO is virtually absent in birds, bats, Old World monkeys, apes, and humans (Dennis et al. 2004; Grus et al. 2005; Shi &amp; Zhang 2007; Smith et al. 2005; Zhao et al. 2011) (Figure 10.2a). In Didelphimorphia, Lagomorpha, and Rodentia, the VNO chemosensory epithelium presents two separate neuronal layers (apical and basal) characterized by the expression of different G protein subunits and receptors (Young &amp; Trask 2007). Apical and basal neurons project to two distinct regions (anterior and posterior) of the AOB. From the AOB, the majority of the centripetal projections of the apical and basal neurons remain segregated in the amygdala and hypothalamus (Martinez-Marcos 2009; Yoon et al. 2005). In other mammalian orders (Carnivora) the dichotomic organization of the vomeronasal projections is not well defined or even absent (Artiodactyla) (Dennis et al. 2003).
Pheromones, chemical signals for intraspecific communication (Karlson and Luescher 1959), are usually blends of chemical compounds in species-specific mixtures. Airborne pheromones of moths often consist of only two or three chemical components, each of which is perceived by a separate type of receptor neurons. Each of these neurons, called olfactory specialists (Boeckh et al. 1965) is tuned to one biologically significant compound; it responds to compounds other than the key compound only if presented at 10- to 10,000-fold higher stimulus concentrations. The composition of a pheromone blend is represented by the pattern of excitations across the types of specialists (Baker et al. 2004). Odor specialists are known also for compounds other than pheromones, such as plant volatiles or carbon dioxide. Less sharply tuned olfactory neurons have been called generalists. They may show varying and overlapping response spectra such as found in moths (Schneider et al. 1964) or in pine weevils (Mustaparta 1975). Insect antennaesense organs for various sensory modalities including the function of nosesprovide simple and convenient subjects for morphological, electrophysiological, and biochemical studies. From the long hair sensilla of moths one may record the responses of individual olfactory neurons by extracellular electrodes. This review will cover various aspects of pheromone communication with an emphasis on reception and little on pheromone-controlled behavior. It will focus on two species of silk moths, Bombyx mori and the saturniid moth Antheraea polyphemus, with a few added remarks on other insects.
Intraspecific communication involves the activation of chemoreceptors and subsequent activation of different central areas that coordinate the responses of the entire organismranging from behavioral modification to modulation of hormones release. Animals emit intraspecific chemical signals, often referred to as pheromones, to advertise their presence to members of the same species and to regulate interactions aimed at establishing and regulating social and reproductive bonds. In the last two decades, scientists have developed a greater understanding of the neural processing of these chemical signals. Neurobiology of Chemical Communication explores the role of the chemical senses in mediating intraspecific communication. Providing an up-to-date outline of the most recent advances in the field, it presents data from laboratory and wild species, ranging from invertebrates to vertebrates, from insects to humans. The book examines the structure, anatomy, electrophysiology, and molecular biology of pheromones. It discusses how chemical signals work on different mammalian and non-mammalian species and includes chapters on insects, Drosophila, honey bees, amphibians, mice, tigers, and cattle. It also explores the controversial topic of human pheromones. An essential reference for students and researchers in the field of pheromones, this is also an ideal resource for those working on behavioral phenotyping of animal models and persons interested in the biology/ecology of wild and domestic species.
Pheromones, which provide specific information concerning the identity, gender, and endocrine status in a variety of mammals have been found in saliva, skin gland secretions, and urine (Halpern and Martinez-Marcos 2003; Powers and Winans 1975; Wysocki and Meredith 1987). The modulation of gonadal function by the smell of urine has been well established in rodent VNOs (Halpern and Martinez-Marcos 2003; Keverne et al. 1986; Wysocki and Meredith 1987). In rats, pheromones in urine excreted from males and females induce various changes in gonadal functions such as reflex ovulation in the absence of coitus and mounting (Johns et al. 1978), a reduction in the estrous cycle of females from 5 to 4 days (Chateau et al. 1976), and estrous synchrony among females living together (McClintock 1978). In addition, exposure to male pheromones elicits the release of luteinizing hormone (Rajendren et al. 1990) and estrous synchrony among females that are living together (McClintock 1978). The vomeronasal system is a second olfactory system organized in parallel with the main olfactory system. The VNO, which is the peripheral chemoreceptor organ of the vomeronasal system, forms a bilateral tubular structure in the ventral part of the nasal cavity of rats. The interaction of a pheromone with receptors of VNSs initiates a sequential molecular event leading to action potential initiation. In the present chapter, we first addressed the mechanism of pheromone reception by the VNO in rats. Chemical signals excreted from animals affect the sexual behavior of conspecific male and female animals. Information regarding the females endocrine state is transmitted to males by means of urinary pheromones. Sexually experienced male rats prefer estrous to diestrous urine odor (Lydell and Doty 1972; Pfaff and Pfaffmann 1969). The VSNs project information to the mitral cells (MTCs) in the AOB located on the dorsocaudal surface of the main olfactory bulb (MOB) (Rajendren et al. 1990). Pheromonal information transmitted via the MTC is modified by GABA-immunoreactive interneurons at the periglomerular cell (PGC) layer and by granule cells (GCs) (Keverne et al. 1986; Halpern and Martinez-Marcos 2003; Wysocki and Meredith 1987). Comparison of c-Fos expression, which is correlated with the neural activity of sexually experienced and inexperienced males after exposure to estrous or diestrous urine shows changes in cellular responses to urinary pheromones as related to sexual experience (Honda et al. 2008). In the lateral and rostral sectors of the PGC, many more Fos-immunoreactive (Fos-ir) cells were observed in the sexually experienced rats than in the inexperienced rats. In the latter part of this chapter, I will describe possible mechanisms concerning changes in neural function with sexual experiences and aging.
The pheromone signals are known to have a potential role in animal reproduction and management (Archunan 2009; Buck 2000; Dominic 1991; Rekwot et al. 2001; Tirindelli et al. 2009). The sources of chemosignals are urine, feces, vaginal secretions, saliva, and specialized scent glands including the odor produced from hair and wool (Albone 1984; Aron 1979; Patra et al. 2012; Van den Hurk 2007). Communication of the timing of the physiological event of ovulation and coordination of sexual behavior are important for successful fertilization (Schams et al. 1977; Ziegler et al. 1993); the success rate of artificial insemination in cattle mainly depends on the time of estrus it is inseminated. If the female fails to conceive when it is inseminated in the nonestrus period, it is a great economic loss estimated around $300 million to the dairy industry in the United States and in India the approximate loss would be several crores. The detection of estrus and diagnosing early pregnancy are the major problems in farm animals, particularly in buffalo. The other problems like irregular or prolonging of the estrous cycle, anestrus, fighting behavior among young ones, mother-young bond, unmotivated males, and poor farm animal management including stress are considered as major issues in farm animals (Rekwot et al. 2001) that need to be addressed. Moreover, pheromones have not been exploited for the purpose of enhancing livestock production. The animal releases volatile odors into the surrounding atmosphere, most of which are waste products of metabolism in which emission of some compounds closely related to reproductive activities are termed as chemical signals (Hradecky 1975). The estrus-related odors are present only during the preestrus and estrus stages. These chemical signals have been reported to be volatile and nonvolatile molecules that are perceived through the main or accessory olfactory system (Brennan and Keverne 1997; Tirindelli et al. 1998). In mammals, structurally and anatomically, the olfactory systems are classified into two types: the MOS and the accessory olfactory system (AOS), specialized for the detection and transmission of pheromonal information (Halpern and Marinez-Marcos 2003; Mucignat-Caretta et al. 2012). In the last two decades, there has been a considerable increase in the knowledge of the chemistry of pheromones in cattle (Rajanarayanan and Archunan 2011; Rameshkumar et al. 2000; Sankar and Archunan 2004; Sankar et al. 2007), pig (Signoret 1970), horse (Kimura 2001), goat (Delgadillo et al. 2006), and sheep (Gelez and Fabre-Nys 2006). These findings suggest that cattle pheromones may act together for influencing precopulatory behavior and successful reproduction. It further indicates that cattle pheromones may be a single compound or a mixture of compounds and that each of the major fractions was faithfully involved in conveying specific signals related to reproductive and social behaviors. The pheromones have not been exploited as much as they can for farmer utility although they have a tremendous role in reproduction. The present review provides insights about the nature of the compounds, behavioral characterization, and practical utility of cattle pheromones that are available (Table 16.1).
The term pheromone has been used to describe chemical signaling in most invertebrate and vertebrate groups, including amphibians. Pheromones are typically defined as chemical substances (e.g., a single molecule or a blend of a few molecules) that elicit an innate stereotyped behavior or developmental change in another individual of the same species (reviewed in Wyatt 2010). Pheromones may be water-soluble, volatile, or nonvolatile. In tetrapod vertebrates, they are detected by chemosensory neurons of the olfactory system, both the main olfactory system and the accessory (vomeronasal) olfactory system (Baum and Kelliher 2009). Pheromones are usually categorized according to function as releasers, primers, modulators, and alarm pheromones. Despite years of study, it is still unclear whether pheromones operate differently from nonpheromones, especially in mammals (Doty 2010). Nonetheless, many favor the use of the term pheromone, arguing that the term has intrinsic heuristic value if restricted to chemical emissions shaped by evolution to have a signaling function within a species (Wyatt 2010). Some of the controversy regarding pheromones may arise from the difficulty of translating a concept originally developed in insects to behaviorally and cognitively sophisticated mammals. Study of amphibian chemical signaling can offer insight to the controversy over the nature of pheromones as well as provide general insights to vertebrate chemical communication. Compared to mammals, amphibians have relatively simple nervous systems and express stereotyped behaviors. A number of amphibian pheromones have been characterized and can be used to evaluate concepts related to pheromones. Further, as modern representatives of basal tetrapods, amphibians can provide insight to the evolution of aspects of chemical signaling, such as the evolution of the vomeronasal system. Finally, due to their biphasic life cycle, amphibians are a good model for understanding how chemical signaling functions in aquatic versus terrestrial environments. Chemical signaling is widespread in amphibians. Extant amphibians descended from a common ancestor about 250 million years ago (San Mauro et al. 2005) and consist of anurans (frogs and toads), urodeles (salamanders), and gymnophionans (caecilians). Chemical communication has been well studied in urodeles, for which chemical communication is a dominant sensory modality. Chemical communication has been less studied in anurans but may be more prevalent than realized (Belanger and Corkum 2009; Lee and Waldman 2002; Waldman and Bishop 2004). Compared to the other amphibian orders, little is known about caecilian chemical communication (but see Eisthen and Polese 2006; Reiss and Eisthen 2008). The goals of this chapter are to review chemical signaling in amphibians and to highlight how study of amphibians can offer insight to vertebrate chemical communication. In this review, I will use the term chemosignal to describe chemical information conveyed among members of the same species that has signaling properties. I will discuss the sources of amphibian chemosignals, the function and chemical identity of chemosignals, and the sensory detection of amphibian chemosignals. The review is not meant to be comprehensive, and readers are referred elsewhere for more information (Dawley 1998; Eisthen and Polese 2006; Houck 2009; Kikuyama et al. 2005; Reiss and Eisthen 2008; Woodley 2010).
Pheromones are chemicals released from one individual to influence the behavior of another animal of the same species (Karlson and Luscher 1959). Detection of these pheromones can produce broad developmental or endocrine changes (priming pheromones) or elicit specific behaviors (releaser pheromones). Releaser pheromones elicit innate behaviors in the receiving individual, and are widely used in the animal kingdom, often to guide mating behavior toward appropriate partners. Pheromones are used to guide social interactions in both vertebrate and invertebrate animals. The social insects (ants, bees, and termites) have taken great advantage of pheromone signaling to create a chemical language that guides an array of behaviors and developmental programs essential for the overall functioning of the colony (reviewed in Alaux et al. 2010). Therefore, understanding how pheromones are detected and how this information is ultimately converted into specific behaviors is of great interest. In this chapter we focus on volatile insect pheromone detection and processing. Insects are well known to have exquisite sensitivity to pheromones. For example, sex pheromones released from female moths attract male mating partners over great distances (Carde and Willis 2008; Fabre 1916), and males can detect single molecules (Kaissling and Priesner 1970). How this remarkable sensitivity is achieved remains poorly understood. Studies utilizing Drosophila melanogaster have been instrumental in elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying volatile pheromone transduction (reviewed in Ha and Smith 2009; Ronderos and Smith 2009; Smith 2012; Vosshall 2008). Here we review recent progress in understanding the detection and neuronal circuitry underlying behaviors elicited by the Drosophila releaser pheromone 11-cis-vaccenyl acetate (cVA). In addition, the neuronal circuits activated by cVA are beginning to be worked out. We discuss recent findings suggesting that the mechanisms for detection of contact (taste) pheromones (including cVA) are distinct from those used for volatile pheromones. Finally, to put these findings in the larger context, lessons learned in the fruit fly are likely to be relevant to other insect pheromone systems, and may reveal general principles underlying pheromone-induced behaviors in all animals. This information will provide the basis for novel approaches that are more selective than chemical pesticides to control insect species that cause human disease and inflict crop damage.
Newly born mammals have to reach the source of milk as promptly as possible to ensure uninterrupted mother-to-offspring transfer of hydration, nutrients, and energy. Colostrum and milk intake also warrants the neonates immediate exposure to micronutrients and antioxidants, passive immunization, innocuous bacterial strains, growth factors, and a range of bioactive peptides that control conservative behavioral functions (i.e., antinociception, sleep induction, learning). With these matters and commodities, mothers also pass on to their offspring different levels of chemosensory information that reveal her identity, the location of the mammae, and the composition of milk. Thus, lactation and sucking uniquely coevolved by mammalian females and newborns imply a puzzle of morphological, physiological, and behavioral arrangements (milk gland structure and location; lactational performance, nursing acceptance; neonates oral competence, absorptive abilities and development) that are all subject to natural selection.
Closely related Mus species Mus musculus and Mus domesticus are the most popular objects in the study of mammalian chemical communication. The understanding of pheromone influences on mammalian behavior has advanced dramatically since the term pheromone was introduced. The major advances in recent years have been based mainly on a single speciesthe mouse (laboratory form of Mus musculus domesticus). Genetic technologies have revealed a surprisingly large repertoire of chemosensory receptors in mice that potentially detect pheromones (Brennan 2010). However, interspecies chemical communication in the house mouse remains the least investigated area. Use of the laboratory inbred strains of mice makes understanding of the behavioral effects elicited by chemical signals from other species even more complicated. Predator-prey relationships provide an excellent model for the study of interspecies chemical communication. Small mammals in general are frequently at risk to be caught by mammalian, avian, or reptilian predators. In turn their prey species developed a variety of specific adaptations to facilitate recognition, avoidance, and defense against predators. Such antipredator behavioral systems are critical for survival (see review Apfelbach et al. 2005). Chemosensory detection is a very important aspect for predator avoidance strategy for many mammals including the house mouse. Odors from carnivores may elicit fear-induced stereotypic behaviors, change activity patterns and feeding rate, and affect the neuroendocrine system, reproductive behavior, and reproductive output in potential prey (Apfelbach et al. 2005; Dielenberg and McGregor 2001; Harvell 1990; Hayes 2008; Hayes et al. 2006; Kats and Dill 1998; Mller-Schwarze 2006). A number of studies (see Table 14.1) showed effects of odors derived from different predators on behavior and physiology of the house mouse. It implies the existence of shared signal properties through a number of predator species. This idea about generalized leitmotif of predator odors was suggested even much earlier (Stoddart 1980). The idea about the existence of a common carnivore signal was experimentally tested for the first time by Nolte et al. (1994). Manipulations with predator diet as well as chemical removal from carnivore urine of the sulfurous compounds and amines revealed their key role in the effects of coyote urine (Canis latrans) on feeding rates in wild living Mus domesticus (Nolte et al. 1994). Berton et al. (1998) also demonstrated that the diet of a cat strongly affects the behavior of mice towards its feces. Using similar chemical manipulations with cat urine (Felis catus) and manipulating with the diet of urine donors, it has been shown that sulfurous compounds and amines are critical for reproductive inhibitory effects of the cat urine in rodents (Voznessenskaya et al. 2002). Another study (Fendt 2006) indicates that only exposure to urine of canids and felids but not of herbivores induces defensive behavior in laboratory rats (Fendt 2006). The term kairomone was widely adopted to name predator chemical signals: kairomones, such as those that elicit fear behavior, are cues transmitted between species that selectively disadvantage the signaler and advantage the receiver (Wyatt 2003). In search of the molecular nature of kairomones, Papes et al. (2010) isolated the salient molecules from two species (rat and cat) using a combination of behavioral assays in nave laboratory mice, calcium imaging and c-Fos induction. The defensive behavior-promoting activity released by other animals is encoded by species-specific proteins belonging to the major urinary protein (MUP) family, homologs of aggression-promoting mouse pheromones and mediated through the vomeronasal organ (VNO) (Papes et al. 2010). The trace-amine-associated receptors (TAARs) form a specific family of G protein-coupled receptors in vertebrates that was initially considered to be neurotransmitter receptors before it was discovered that mouse TAARs function as chemosensory receptors in the olfactory epithelium (Liberles and Buck 2006). Discovery of a new function of TAARs stimulated the search for the potential ligands. More recent studies (Liberles 2009) showed that ligands for mouse TAARs include a number of volatile amines, several of which are natural constituents of mouse urine. One chemical, 2-phenylethylamine, is reported to be enriched in the urine of stressed animals, and two others, trimethylamine and isoamylamine, are enriched in male versus female urine. These findings raised the possibility that some TAARs are pheromone receptors (Liberles 2009). Further studies (Ferrero et al. 2011) revealed that 2-phenylethylamine is a key component of a predator odor blend that triggers hardwired aversion circuits in the rodent brain. Neurons expressing TAARs project to discrete glomeruli predominantly localized to a confined bulb region (Johnson et al. 2012). TAARs expression involves different regulatory logic than OR expression. Moreover, the epigenetic signature of OR gene choice is absent from TAAR genes. The unique molecular and anatomical features of the TAAR neurons suggest that they constitute a distinct olfactory subsystem (Johnson et al. 2012). Initially 2-phenylethylamine was purified from bobcat urine; quantitative HPLC analysis across 38 mammalian species indicated enriched 2-phenylethylamine production by numerous carnivores. Rats and mice avoid a 2-phenylethylamine odor source; enzymatic depletion of 2-phenylethylamine from a carnivore odor showed that it is required for full avoidance behavior (Ferrero et al. 2011). This study clearly demonstrated that rodent olfactory sensory neurons have the capacity for recognizing interspecies odors. Findings of universal carnivore signals may explain why potential prey respond to odors from allopatric predators with which they do not have evolutionary links and never encountered in their lives, on one hand. On the other hand, the ability of predator odors to produce profound effects on the behavior of prey in general and especially on the reproductive behavior and neuroendocrine system is associated with natural predators only, which suggests an essential role of the evolutionary link between signaling predator and potential prey. First of all, it means that potential prey (in our case, mice) are able to distinguish predator species on a chemosensory basis. Numerous studies (Table 14.1) support this observation (also see review in Apfelbach et al. 2005). It raises a question about the multicompound nature of the kairomones as well as about the existence of species-specific predator chemical cues. One of the most specialized predators toward the house mouse is the domestic cat Felis catus. A long history of coexistence in the same environments led to the development of mutual adaptations at the genetic level. These two species provide a perfect model for the study of innate responses to predator odors. Felinine is a unique sulfur-containing amino acid found in the urine of domestic cats (Rutherfurd et al. 2002). Sulfur-containing volatile compounds 3-mercapto-3-methyl-1-butanol, 3-mercapto-3-methylbutyl formate, 3-methyl-3-methylthio-1-butanol, and 3-methyl-3-(2-methyl-disulfanyl)-1-butanol are identified as species-specific odorants and candidates of felinine derivatives from the cat urine. The levels of these compounds were found to be sex- and age-dependent (Miyazaki et al. 2006a, b). These cat-specific volatile compounds may represent pheromones used as territorial markers for conspecific recognition or reproductive purposes by mature cats (Miyazaki et al. 2008). Species-specific compounds may be used also by other species to recognize potential predators and their physiological status. We now present evidence to support bioactivity of L-felinine and its derivates with the house mouse (Mus musculus).
The question arises as to whether humans possess pheromones. This issue is complex, since one has to first define what, in fact, a pheromone is. Once this is done, then some clear behavioral or endocrinological effect must be measured to demonstrate the effects of the putative agent.
Adult neurogenesis is a striking form of neural plasticity occurring in restricted regions of the mammalian brain. The past decades have witnessed tremendous research efforts in this field providing significant information regarding the anatomical, molecular, and functional mechanisms underlying neurogenesis in the adult brain. New neuron production regulates integrated brain functions, learning and memory, and adapts the brain to the changing world. Recent data in rodents indicates a link between adult neurogenesis and reproductive and social behavior. This provides the opportunity to unravel the function of this form of neural plasticity in ethologically relevant contexts and opens new perspectives to explore how the brain processes social stimuli. In this chapter we will summarize some of the major key points regarding the cues and mechanisms modulating adult neurogenesis during social interaction and possible role/s played by newborn neurons in this context. To achieve this goal we will give an overview of past and ongoing literature showing this link, with particular emphasis on our recent studies on two examples of sexual behavior: mate pheromonal imprinting in female mice, and paced mating in rats. The early conception of the function of the brain postulated that once the brain developed it became stable and no new neurons were added in adulthood. This dogma has gradually been dropped over the past 40 years with the clear demonstration that adult neurogenesis is a striking form of structural remodeling characterizing the brain of vertebrates, though with significant differences between groups (Lindsey and Tropepe 2006; Bonfanti and Peretto 2011). In the 1970s, the issue of adult neurogenesis was regarded with skepticism although during the previous decade some proliferative activity was reported in the brain by Altman and colleagues (Altman 1963; Altman and Das 1965). Only years later, with the progress of neuroanatomical techniques and the demonstration of genesis and integration of new neurons in the adult brain of canaries (Nottebohm 1985), adult neurogenesis regained attention. A new era in this field occurred starting from two simultaneous findings: the occurrence of a massive cell migration toward the rodents olfactory bulb (Luskin 1993; Lois and Alvarez-Buylla 1994) and the first isolation of adult neural stem cells (Reynolds and Weiss 1992). These studies strengthened the idea that neural plasticity in adult mammals not only occurs through synaptic remodeling but also through the addition of new neurons in the mature preexisting circuits. During the last two decades, this intriguingly persisting process in the mammalian brain was intensely investigated, and several review articles progressively made the point on its extension, features, and significance under physiological and pathological conditions (Emsley et al. 2005; Sohur et al. 2006; Gould 2007; Migaud et al. 2010; Bonfanti and Peretto 2011; Curtis et al. 2011; Fuentealba et al. 2012). It is now clear that a constitutive/physiologic neurogenesis in adult mammals mostly occurs within two telencephalic regions, the subventricular zoneolfactory bulb system (SVZ-OB) (Lois and Alvarez-Buylla 1994) and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus (Kempermann et al. 2004). The neurogenic process in these regions is orchestrated by a complex interplay between intrinsic and extrinsic environmental cues. Several developmental signals, morphogens, growth factors, neurotransmitters, hormones, transcription factors, and epigenetic regulators have been described to tightly regulate specification and activity of proliferating progenitors, as well as the migration and integration of neuronal precursors within functional circuits (Hagg 2005; Faigle and Song 2013). The signaling mechanisms supporting adult neurogenesis are dynamically regulated by many environmental cues that can either positively or negatively influence the neurogenic process at the level of progenitor cells and during the integration of newborn neurons within circuits (Ma et al. 2009). This activity-dependent regulation is only beginning to be unraveled. Importantly, adult-born neurons in neurogenic regions exhibit critical periods of plasticity during a specific time window of their maturation (Nissant et al. 2009; Ming and Song 2011), and high responsiveness toward the same stimuli driving their integration/selection into circuits (Magavi et al. 2005; Kee et al. 2007). This supports a role of newborn neurons in sensory processing in DG and OB. Accordingly, several sources of data indicate that adult neurogenesis contributes to mechanisms of learning and memory (Lazarini et al. 2009; Moreno et al. 2009), and more recent hypotheses suggest that it also contributes to enhancing pattern separation (Aimone et al. 2011; Sahay et al. 2011). In this view, the continuous addition of new neurons in the olfactory bulb and hippocampus rather than being a simple mechanism of renewal of preexisting cells expands the capacity for plasticity in these regions. In this chapter we will describe recent findings (see Feierstein et al. 2012 for review) that link reproductive and social stimuli to adult neurogenesis, particularly in the olfactory system. We will address first a brief description of the main results supporting this connection, and then, taking into account our recent work (Oboti et al. 2009, 2011; Corona et al. 2011; Portillo et al. 2012), we will focus on two striking examples of sexual behavior: (1) mate pheromonal imprinting to avoid pregnancy block in female mice and (2) paced mating in rats, namely the ability to control the sexual interaction. In both cases we demonstrate a link between adult neurogenesis and social activities underlying the reproductive function.
This chapter is based on a long-standing quest initiated by one of us (RLB) in 1964 when George Schaller undertook the first detailed scientific study of the tiger (Schaller 1967). It has been rather like chasing a crooked shadow through a maze, for the concept of pheromones in mammals was not well understood at that time and many misconceptions on the social life of the tiger, and particularly regarding the question of olfactory ability of the tiger, obscured the views of latter-day researchers. We have attempted to take into account implications of evolution, ethology, ethochemistry, and ethogenomics while studying the strategies for documenting the different forms of chemical communication in the world of big cats, especially the tiger. Our knowledge in this context was enriched by experiences during several periods of fieldwork in different ecological terrain, in India and Africa, in most of the cases by one of us (RLB). The subject of chemical signaling, only one aspect of which is pheromone, is very wide-ranging. For the sake of clarity and the self-sufficiency of this chapter, we project our views in two ways: in the first part we present a general treatment of chemical signals concentrating mainly on pheromonal signals (communication) in the tiger and other big cats, the lion (Asiatic and African), the Indian leopard, and the African cheetah, and in the second part we will try to substantiate our views with quantitative data records that we have gathered over decades in different phases. Our study on the latter three big cats is less exhaustive than that on the tiger and we have had no opportunity of investigating the jaguar and the cougar (puma). A major breakthrough in the subject of animal psychology occurred when in 1973, Konrad Lorenz, Niko Tinbergen, and Karl von Frisch won the Nobel Prize for Physiology/Medicine for their pioneering work on animal behavior. A new terminologyethologycame of age; the terms ethology and animal behavior became synonymous and now also include sociobiology and related analysis and modeling on behavioral studies from the evolutionary perspective, comparative psychology, and very recently, signal engineering and ethochemistry (as developed in the context of our work on big cats), and so forth.
The previous chapters explored the peripheral anatomy and physiology of sensory organs responsible for detection of chemical signals shared among members of the same species. This chapter deals with the central processing of intraspecific chemo-signals in the mouse; in particular, it will present data on the stimulus processing in the olfactory bulb, the amygdala, and the olfactory cortex, mainly in relation to neuroendocrine and behavioral modulation. Communication is a primary function of living systems, from unicellular to complex organisms. It is necessary to mediate the responses of organisms to environmental changes and also to organize the actions of multiple members of the same species, to increase the fitness of both message sender and receiver, or either. Communication via chemical signals allows an honest and sensitive transmission of information, which requires the attribution of a specific link between a molecule (or blend of molecules) and a given response. Hence, central processing of intraspecific chemical signals allows stimulus detection and feature encoding, and involves different associative areas of the brain in mediating the responses to chemosignals. Signaling molecules (not referred to here as pheromones due to the lack of consensus on the use of this term) are released in the environment together with biologic fluids, including tears, saliva, and genital secretions. Most of the data available for the mouse was obtained using as stimuli the molecules emitted with urine, which is excreted in larger amounts. Several sensory organs detect the relevant molecules and send information to various centers in the brain, using different, yet interconnected, pathways. This chapter reviews what is known about signal processing in key chemosensory areas of the brain to show how chemical cues from conspecifics may influence both the behavior (including exploration, social, and sexual behavior) and the physiology of the organism that sends or receives the chemosignals.
Although the sensations of itch and pain are quite distinct and result in different behavioral responses (i.e., scratching versus withdrawal), they share multiple important features. In human skin, both sensations can be produced by stimuli of the same modality (e.g., mechanical, thermal, chemical, and electrical), with stimuli at low intensities producing itch and, at higher intensities, inducing the sensation of pain (von Frey 1922; Lewis et al. 1927; Bishop 1943). Itch or pain can furthermore be induced from apparently identical spots in human skin (von Frey 1922; Bishop 1943), and loss of itch sensation is paralleled by the loss of pain sensitivity (Trk 1907; Thle 1912; von Frey 1922; Bickford 1938; McMurray 1950; Nolano et al. 2000). Following the intradermal administration of histamine or capsaicin, a neurogenically mediated increase in blood flow (flare) can be observed in the skin surrounding the application site, and mechanical stimulation of the surrounding skin produces the sensation of itch or pain (Simone et al. 1991; LaMotte et al. 1991). Capsaicin desensitization of human skin leads to loss of pain induced by noxious heat or capsaicin and the loss of histamine-induced itch sensation (Jancso et al. 1985, Tth-Ksa et al. 1986; Nolano et al. 1999; Fuchs et al. 2000; Weisshaar et al. 1998). These commonalities suggest that the sensations of itch and pain are either mediated through an identical neuronal pathway or neuronal pathways that are closely related anatomically and functionally. Several lines of evidence support the idea that itch and pain are indeed mediated through different primary afferent pathways. Noxious counterstimuli are able to provide a marked and persistent relief from itch while producing only a modest, nonsignificant, and transient reduction of pain (Ward et al. 1996). Opioids may induce itch while they produce pronounced analgesia (e.g., Ballantyne et al. 1988), and these effects are likely mediated by opioids acting on distinct dorsal horn neurons (Liu et al. 2011). Ablation of dorsal horn neurons expressing the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor leads to pronounced inhibition of scratching behavior in mice without affecting behavior induced by noxious stimuli (Sun et al. 2009). Mice, in which the central transmission of nociceptive input is diminished, show decreased pain behaviors to noxious stimuli, while spontaneous and stimulus-evoked scratching behavior is increased (Liu et al. 2010). These findings suggest that the sensations of itch and pain are mediated through distinct afferent pathways. In this chapter we will review the primary afferent neuronal apparatus that responds to pruritic stimuli in primate and that therefore likely mediates the sensation of itch. As it will become evident, these afferents also respond to noxious stimuli that in human produce the sensation of pain. However, this does not exclude the possibility that these afferents indeed act as pruriceptors.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are best known for their roles in controlling innate immunity (Akira et al. 2006). TLRs are characterized as pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs) to initiate innate immune responses via recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) (Akira et al. 2006). TLRs can also sense endogenous molecules that are released after cellular stress or tissue injury, known as danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Activation of TLRs in immune cells leads to the synthesis of various proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines via transcriptional regulation. TLRs-mediated innate immune responses are also a prerequisite for the generation of adaptive immune responses (Mills 2011). Thus, TLRs represent the first line of host defense against pathogens and play a key role in both innate and adaptive immunity (Akira et al. 2006). TLRs are also found to be expressed by various cell types in the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS), such as microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, Schwann cells, and neurons (Okun et al. 2011; Buchanan et al. 2010; Lehnardt 2010). Activation of TLR signaling in the CNS also results in the production of inflammatory cytokines, enzymes, and other inflammatory mediators, which contributes to the pathogenesis of CNS microbial infection (Suh et al. 2009) as well as noninfective disorders, such as stroke (Caso et al. 2007), Alzheimers disease (AD) (Tahara et al. 2006), multiple sclerosis (MS) (Prinz et al. 2006), and chronic pain (Guo and Schluesener 2007; Nicotra et al. 2011; Liu et al. 2012b). TLRs are emerging as important players in acute and chronic itch (Liu et al. 2012b). Our recent study demonstrated that TLRs, including TLR3 and TLR7, are expressed by a subset of primary sensory neurons, which coexpress itch signaling components such as transient receptor potential vanilloid subtype 1 (TRPV1) (Liu et al. 2010, 2012a), and play an important role in itch sensation. TLRs are considered as cellular sensors for detecting exogenous and endogenous ligands/agonists in primary sensory neurons to initiate itch sensation associated with skin infection and tissue injury.
Itch is defined as an unpleasant cutaneous sensation which provokes the desire to scratch (Rothman 1941, p. 357) and differs from pain sensation, defined as an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage (IASP Taxonomy). Nevertheless, the neuronal mechanisms that distinguish itch from pain are not fully understood. There is a long-standing debate between labeled-line versus and population-coding theories of itch (Ma 2010). The concept of labeled-line coding holds that itch-specific primary afferents or pruriceptors transmit information to central ascending sensory neurons that are dedicated to signaling itch sensation. In contrast, population-coding mechanisms are based on the assumption that itch is signaled by a subpopulation of neurons that may receive both pruriceptive and nociceptive input. The thermosensitive transient receptor potential (TRP) channels TRPV1 and TRPA1, which bind capsaicin and allyl isothiocyanate (mustard oil), respectively, are important for pain transmission. Interestingly, knockout mice lacking TRPV1 or TRPA1 exhibit less histamine- or chloroquine-evoked scratching behavior, respectively (Imamachi et al. 2009; Shim et al. 2007; Wilson et al. 2011), suggesting that pruriceptors express TRPV1 or TRPA1 that are presumably downstream of the immediate itch transduction process. Moreover, these findings imply that both pruriceptors and nociceptors express these algogen-sensitive TRP channels. Consistent with this, in vivo electrophysiology studies revealed that most pruritogen-responsive neurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn also respond to algogens in mice (Akiyama et al. 2009a, 2012b), rats (Jinks and Carstens 2002), and monkeys (Davidson et al. 2007, 2012; Simone et al. 2004). It was hypothesized that itch is signaled by the subpopulation of pruritogen- and algogen-sensitive neurons, while pain is signaled by the subpopulation of neurons responsive to algogens but not pruritogens (Akiyama et al. 2010c; Davidson et al. 2012). This chapter will discuss spinal coding of itch and pain as well as modulation of itch by noxious counterstimuli.
Somatic sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) are composed of a variety of sensory modalities, such as pain-related nociceptors, itch-related pruriceptors, thermoreceptors and mechanoreceptors (Basbaum et al. 2009; Delmas et al. 2011). This chapter will focus on the neurotransmitter basis of somatic sensory information processing. Most, if not all, DRG neurons are glutamatergic excitatory neurons and release glutamate onto postsynaptic neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord (Broman et al. 1993; De Biasi and Rustioni 1988; Schneider and Perl 1988; Yoshimura and Jessell 1990). A subset of DRG neurons additionally release neuropeptide transmitters (Hkfelt 1991). Accordingly, neurons involved with pain, itch, and thermoception are divided into two subtypes, peptidergic and nonpeptidergic. Peptidergic neurons release one or two classic neuropeptides, the substance P (SP) and the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), whereas many nonpeptidergic neurons bind the isolection B4 or IB4 (Basbaum et al. 2009). This classic definition is, however, not entirely accurate, due to the existence of other neuropeptides. For example, while the gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) is expressed in putative CGRP(+) pruriceptors, the expression of the GRP-related peptide Neuromendin B (NMB) is associated with both CGRP(+) and IB4(+) neurons (Fleming et al. 2012; Sun and Chen 2007). Here, we will discuss the roles of distinct transmitters in processing itch- and pain-related sensory information.
Generally, cytokines comprise a large family of secreted proteins regulating a variety of cellular functions during inflammation and immune responses. Cytokines activate immune as well as resident skin cells including keratinocytes, endothelial cells, Langerhans cells, mast cells, or fibroblasts. Subsequently, those cells release mediators that potentially communicate with sensory nerves regulating neurogenic inflammation, pain, or itch (Chung et al. 2003, 2004; Dallos et al. 2006; E et al. 2006; Grewe et al. 2000; Huang et al. 2008; Ibrahim et al. 2005; Kakurai et al. 2001; Raychaudhuri et al. 2008; Tanaka et al. 2007). In addition, immune cells (e.g., mast cells) can directly communicate with sensory nerves during inflammation and pruritus (Roosterman et al. 2006) via histamine, tryptase, prostanoids, or RL-peptides (Steinhoff et al. 2000). For example, mediators like histamine or tryptase released by mast cells during inflammation and allergic reactions can directly talk to sensory nerves (Steinhoff et al. 2000, 2003) and are thus targets for therapy.
Lipid mediators have a variety of biological and pathophysiological functions in the skin. Especially well known are the metabolites of arachidonic acid that, when liberated from membrane phospholipids by phospholiplase A2, are involved in inflammation and pain. In the 1970s, prostaglandin (PG) E2, one such arachidonic acid metabolite, was reported to elicit itch, probably via histamine release, and to enhance experimentally evoked itch in humans (Hgermark and Strandberg 1977; Fjellner and Hgermark 1979). For a long time after that, only a few reports describing the roles of lipid mediators in pruritus have been published. One reason for such little progress in understanding the lipid itch mediators could be the lack of a reliable method for the behavioral evaluation of itch in animal experiments (Woodward et al. 1985). In 1995, pruritogenic substances, but not algogenic, were shown to elicit hind-paw scratching in mice, raising the possibility that scratching can be used as an index of itch response in rodents (Kuraishi et al. 1995). Animal experiments have revealed the involvement and roles of several lipid mediators for itch. In this chapter, the roles of lipid mediators in human and animal itch are explained.
Cholestasis is defined as impaired secretion of bile.(1) Pruritus is a complication of cholestasis including that associated with mutations in genes that code for transporters in the hepatocyte(2,3) and from inflammatory liver diseases.(4,5) In this regard, pruritus is more common in conditions characterized by bile duct inflammatory destruction and ductopenia including primary bile cirrhosis primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC)(5) than in those characterized by hepatocellular injury such as chronic viral hepatitis.(4) The pruritus of cholestasis tends to be generalized. It leads to scratching, sometimes violent, resulting in excoriations and prurigo nodularis. This type of pruritus can lead to sleep deprivation, and in some patients, to suicidal ideations. Intractable pruritus from liver disease is an indication for liver transplantation even in the absence of liver failure.(6,7) Accordingly, pruritus is a complication of liver disease that requires specific management and intense research in an effort to design effective antipruritic medications. Women with cholestasis of pregnancy can experience severe pruritus especially in the third trimester.(8) The pruritus from cholestasis of pregnancy resolves itself after delivery; if it does not, investigations to rule out liver disease are indicated. In patients with PBC the pruritus has not been consistently reported to correlate with biological markers of disease.(9) Also, in PBC the presence of intrahepatic florid bile duct lesions and granulomata were significantly related to the severity of pruritus (and fatigue), which was assessed subjectively, on the day of the biopsy.(10) This observation is interesting because, although it is difficult to infer the degree of cholestasis from a liver biopsy, as there is sampling error, the fact that patients with stage I PBC can experience severe pruritus may suggest an important release of pruritogens in association with active inflammatory destruction of biliary epithelial cells, which characterizes this stage. The pruritus can persist and remit throughout the course of the disease, and as the disease progresses to liver failure, the pruritus tends to cease,(11) as if a certain degree of liver function were necessary for pruritogen(s) or its cofactors to be produced or for the sensation to be perceived. In relation with PBC, it was also reported that presentation of the disease at less than 50 years of age correlated with an increased likelihood of reporting symptoms (and not responding to ursodeoxycholic acid, the drug approved for the treatment of this disease).(12)
The sensation of itch is difficult to define but is generally accepted as an unpleasant cutaneous sensation, leading to the desire to scratch. It has clear survival value as it has been conserved across many mammalian species through different evolutionary pathways. There are many different manifestations of itch or other related sensations, such as tingling, crawling, or irritation. Some of these more diffuse sensations are initiated in the central nervous system (CNS), but most originate from the periphery, in particular, the skin. Cutaneous itch has many different causes and triggers, and it is crucial to understand that the interactions between the peripheral nonmyelinated, sensory C-fibers and different skin cells is the initial step for the initiation of the itch sensation in skin. Numerous skin cells are involved in this nerveskin interaction, ranging from keratinocytes, melanocytes, Merkel cells, Langerhans cells to various dermal cells such as mastocytes, endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and cells in skin appendages. In previous publications we proposed the existence of a keratinocyte-nerve unit, consisting of very fine and superficial nerve fibers in the epidermis connecting to keratinocytes that may be specialized in function. These keratinocytes could act as sensors and send signals either to other keratinocytes or to the epidermal C-fibers. The interaction between different cell systems in the epidermis might be crucial for the initiation of various peripheral sensations such as pain, itching, burning, tickling, and tingling. All these sensations have very distinct functions, but most of these sensation qualities do not require an immediate reflex mechanical withdrawal reaction such as the stimulation of dermal myelinated A-delta fibers with conduction of deep, well-defined injuries. Sensations such as itching, not well localized pain burning, tickling or tingling are danger signals that do not require an immediate withdrawal action but rather notify of a danger that needs to be removed by swiping or scratching. This clearly implies that the skin has very sophisticated mechanisms to sense different levels of danger and to react in different ways. The brain provides a conscious realization that there is a sensation of itch, after which we will react by rubbing or scratching to remove the noxious stimulus. The itch signal from the periphery will be modulated during its journey through the peripheral nerves, dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord to the higher centers in the brain. Inflammation of the skin as well as constant stimulation of the peripheral nerve system will modify signals emanating from the skin and in transmission of these signals to the CNS; indeed, the threshold and the irritability of the nerve fibers will change under the influence of various cytokines, growth factors, neuropeptides, and neurotransmitters. The different perceptions of itch and pain seem to have very distinct pathways in the CNS. The removal of pain is not a prerequisite for induction of itch (Liu et al. 2011). It is very difficult to separate the peripheral events in itch and pain from the processes in the CNS, but it is clear that these various sensations can be modulated at every level of transduction (Sun and Chen 2007). The events in the periphery appear to be equally important as mechanisms occurring in the CNS, and this is especially true for the involvement of the opioid receptor system in modulation of sensory function both in the periphery and CNS. While the opioid system, and in particular its influence on pain, has been well studied in the CNS, very little is known about the role of opioid receptors in skin, and in addition we are at the infancy of understanding the nerve systems in the skin. The goal of this chapter is to describe the role of the opioid receptor system in the induction and regulation of the peripheral components of pain and itching mechanisms, with strong focus on itch. Also discussed are possibilities of treating very cumbersome sensations (itch, pain, and tingling) that have been peripherally induced by topical applications of opioids, with the intention of limiting the side effects generated by opioidergic activity within the CNS.
A large number of studies published over the last 75 years indicate that, in addition to blocking pain, ventral lateral cordotomies (surgical disruption of the ventral lateral funiculus) also consistently block the sensation of itch. Such studies are taken as evidence supporting an important role for the spinothalamic tract (STT) in pruriception since its axons ascend within the VLF. Banzet (1927) first reported that cordotomy abolished pruritus. He noted that severe itch caused by irritation of the vulva was completely relieved following a ventral lateral cordotomy and recommended cordotomy as a treatment for the problem. Hyndman and Wolkin (1943) carefully studied the responses of ten cordotomy patients to the pruritic compound cowhage. They found that cowhage did not produce itch in the areas rendered analgesic in any of the patients but did produce itch in areas in which pain sensation was normal. These authors concluded that it can be said with certainty that the sensation of itch is mediated through the spinothalamic tract (Hyndman and Wolkin 1943, p. 130). White et al. (1950) reported that a patient who had undergone a cordotomy did not experience itch in the analgesic area of the body even following contact with poison ivy. These authors also noted that in another patient severe itching caused by a intramedullary neoplasm of the spinal cord was abolished by a cordotomy and that their patients were not annoyed by the itch following the bite of a mosquito. Foerster (1936), Graf (1960), and Taren and Kahn (1966) also reported that cordotomies blocked the sensation of itch. Therefore, these clinical studies showed that, in addition to information related to pain and temperature sensation, axons in the ventral lateral funiculus (VLF) convey information that is necessary for production of the sensation of itch. It should be noted that electrophysiological studies of neurons in other spinal pathways that send ascending axons within the VLF, such as the spinoparabrachial, spinomesencephalic, spinoreticular, and spinohypothalamic tracts, have not yet been carried out. Axons in any, or all, of these pathways may also carry pruriceptive information to any number of areas of the brain and thereby contribute to sensory-discriminative, autonomic, affective, or modulatory systems related to itch. The responses of STT neurons to pruritic stimuli have been examined in several electrophysiological studies. Wei and Tuckett (1991) examined the responses of individual axons ascending within the VLF of cats to the nonhistaminergic pruritic agent cowhage. The spinal cords of the cats were cut at C1 to ensure that all axons that responded to the stimuli were ascending within the VLF. It was not possible in this study to determine whether the examined units were axons of the STT of any of the other pathways within the VLF. The responses of 34 axons classified as wide dynamic range (WDR) (i.e., responding to innocuous and noxious stimuli) were compared following application of inactive (boiled) and active cowhage to their receptive fields. Almost all units were activated by the insertion of either inactive or active cowhage. A majority of the examined units exhibited significantly increased levels of firing for minutes following removal of the active, but not the inactive, cowhage spicules. These findings showed that mechanically sensitive neurons are capable of carrying pruriceptive information and therefore support the idea that neurons that respond to nociceptive stimuli might also be capable of carrying pruriceptive information. It appears that no attempt was made in this study to determine whether any axons in the VLF were insensitive to mechanical stimuli. This study also provided additional evidence that pruriceptive information ascends within the VLF; this is indirect support for the idea that the STT is involved in pruriception. Andrew and Craig (2001) examined responses of mechanically insensitive spinothalamic tract neurons in the lumbar spinal cord of cats. A small number of such cells were found. Four responded to iontophoretic application of histamine. Two of these were also activated by application of mustard oil, a noxious stimulus. The authors concluded sensory information about itch was carried by STT axons that responded only to pruriceptive stimuli. Responses to injections of capsaicin were not examined nor were the responses of mechanically sensitive nociceptive neurons to application of histamine.
Itch is a somatosensory percept that is triggered by irritants at the skins surface. However, the manner in which itch is coded in the nervous system remains almost completely unknown. Recent work has uncovered a key role of spinal interneurons in the modulation of itch. Here we discuss these recent discoveries in the context of our understanding of spinal microcircuitry, highlighting the possible roles of the dorsal horn in the processing of pruritic input. While it is not known which specific subsets of primary afferents underlie itch, there is good evidence that the main receiving zone for these afferents is within laminae I and II of the spinal cord. For instance, itch sensation is only lost when the conduction of all fibers (including C-fibers) is blocked, implying that itch is mediated in large part by fine diameter fibers, which are known terminate in superficial laminae. In particular, many of these itch-mediating C-fibers are likely to be sensory afferents that express TrpV1 and/or TrpA1, and the primary afferents that express these channels have synaptic connections with lamina I and lamina II neurons (Yang et al. 1998; Nakatsuka et al. 2002; Kosugi et al. 2007; Shim et al. 2007; Imamachi et al. 2009; Uta et al. 2010; Patel et al. 2011; Wilson et al. 2011). As further evidence, neurons in the superficial dorsal horn, show fos induction upon intradermal injection of itch-evoking chemicals such as serotonin and SLIGRL as well as in a dry skin model of pruritus (Nojima et al. 2003, 2004; Akiyama et al. 2009a,b). Last, in vivo responses to various pruritogens such as histamine, serotonin, SLIGRL, and chloroquine, as well as the response to mosquito allergy have been recorded from neurons in the superficial dorsal horn (Jinks and Carstens 2000, 2002; Akiyama et al. 2009a,b; Omori et al. 2009; Akiyama et al. 2012c). Together these findings suggest that neurons in the superficial dorsal horn receive the somatosensory input that gives rise to itch sensation. Laminae I and II of the spinal cord contain numerous functional populations of neurons. However, projection neurons that convey information to the brain represent around one percent of the total number of neurons in this region (Todd 2010). Thus, the vast majority of neurons in the superficial dorsal horn are interneurons with local (and in some cases also long propriospinal) axonal projections, and these are involved in the processing of sensory information. Does the existence of a complex network of spinal interneurons imply that itch is decoded within the spinal cord? To what extent is itch modulated in the spinal cord? While we do not yet know the answers to these key questions, there are a number of important psychophysical experiments that are suggestive of the idea that itch is modulated by spinal microcircuits.
Chronic localized itch is supposed to be based on spontaneous activity of primary afferent fibers that are excited by pruritic mediators in the skin. One might therefore conclude that continuous release of pruritic mediators underlies chronic itch. However, chemical responses in C-fibers are characterized by pronounced tachyphylaxis. Thus, nave nociceptors can hardly sustain ongoing activity following prolonged chemical activation. This chapter is therefore focused on mechanisms changing the sensitivity of the neurons involved in itch processing, such that they can sustain chronic signaling of itch both in the periphery and in the spinal cord.
Uremic pruritus, now better named chronic kidney disease-associated pruritus (CKD-aP), remains a frequent and compromising symptom in patients with advanced or end-stage renal disease (Mettang et al. 1996). Most therapeutic trials have shown only limited success. Several times in the past a new treatment option has been reported to be effective, but very soon thereafter conflicting results appear (De Marchi et al. 1992; Balaskas and Uldall 1992; Peer et al. 1996; Pauli-Magnus et al. 2000b). The main obstacle in the effort to create effective treatment modalities is the incomplete knowledge of the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. Furthermore, given the great clinical heterogeneity of patients with kidney failure, systematically performed studies are hard to undertake and therefore sparse.
The peripheral nervous system (PNS) is designed to receive inputs from the environment and transduce these into signals that are sent to the central nervous system (CNS). While most PNS neurons carry some receptors for classical neurotransmitters like glutamate, they are only weakly sensitive to these substances (or are not nearly as sensitive to them as CNS neurons are). Instead, as their primary function is to detect changes in external cuesfor instance, heat and foreign chemicalsthey are thought to be activated mostly through a broad range of receptors that recognize such environmental signals. These receptors can be divided into several broad groups. The groups comprising the olfactory and taste receptors represent the classic examples of families that, taken together, can detect an extraordinary range of substances from the environment. Both groups are members of the GPCR superfamily and are coupled to various G-proteins, through which they transduce their signals in second messenger mediated intracellular pathways. Each receptor is tuned to respond to varying degrees to chemicals with specific structures or properties. Many of these receptors existseveral dozen olfactory receptors in humans and several hundred in miceand each is tuned differently. The circuitry underlying detection of odors is complex and knowledge of it is incomplete, though the field is moving forward rapidly, but it is thought that specific odors are detected by CNS processing of the signals sent from many different olfactory neurons that respond differently to the same odor. The ensemble input is different for every odor; in such a way, this library of receptors is capable of detecting a vast array of substances not ever made endogenously. Among the sensations detected by the PNS, arguably the ones that induce the quickest behavioral (as opposed to motor) responses are those of pain and itch. These unpleasant sensations direct the organism to avoid a harmful situation or to remove a dangerous animal like a parasite. Like olfaction and taste, they are critical for survival, though extended experience of these sensations, often occurring in pathological states, dramatically lowers quality of life. It is known that mechanical stimulation and a wide range of chemicals can induce these sensations. While receptors have been discovered for several individual chemicalsone example is the TrpV1 channel for the neurotoxin capsaicinother mechanisms must be discovered to account for the effects of most painful and itchy substances. One attractive hypothesis is that the neurons innervating the epithelia employ a family of receptors, analogous to the olfactory system, that serve to detect these noxious stimuli. The Mrgpr family of receptors was discovered in 2001 and comprises 18 genes and pseudogenes in humans and 50 in mice (Dong et al. 2001) (Figure 12.1a). Many members are expressed exclusively in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal ganglia (TG), which extend neurites into several layers of the skin and are responsible for most peripheral sensations, including noxious mechanical stimuli and temperature (Dong et al. 2001) (Figure 12.1b). This expression pattern raises the exciting possibility that they are specialized for somatosensation. In 2009, one of these receptors was found to be critical for the itch induced by the antimalarial drug chloroquine (Liu et al. 2009). In this and other studies, other pruritic substances were also shown to activate Mrgpr family members, further linking them to itch sensation (Liu et al. 2009, 2011). At the moment, it is unclear whether most pruritic stimuli act through these receptors, at least indirectly, but they have helped clarify the neural mechanisms underlying itch, and to a lesser extent, pain sensation. The history of research on Mrgprs is presented here, including what is known currently about this interesting family of receptors.
Pruritus (itch sensation) was defined 350 years ago by a German physician, Samuel Hafenreffer, as an unpleasant sensation that elicits a desire or reflex to scratch. Itch/pruritus is the most common symptom in skin diseases. At any given time, one of three people in the United States has a skin disease (Johnson 2004; Thorpe et al. 2004). Skin disease is listed as one of the top 15 groups of medical conditions in which prevalence and healthcare spending increased the most between 1987 and 2000 in the United States (Thorpe et al. 2004). The estimated cost of skin diseases, including direct medical cost and the economic burden on quality of life to the American public in a single year 2004, was approximately US$96 billion (Bickers et al. 2006). Actually, the significance of skin diseases is a worldwide issue. For example, 70% of people living in developing countries suffer from skin diseases at some points in their lives, but of these 3 billion, people in 127 countries do not have access to basic skin medications (Ersser and Penzer 2000). According to a recent review of epidemiological data, itch is also one of the key symptoms in patients suffering from a variety of systemic disorders including infectious, uremic, hepatic, and hematological diseases (Weisshaar and Dalgard 2009). Although causes of itch depend on several factors such as disease, age, ethnicity, and characteristics of the regional healthcare systems, the symptom of itch is highly prevalent and represents a medical burden in the global community (Weisshaar and Dalgard 2009). Itch is not life threatening in most conditions. However, chronic or severe itch can cause a great deal of psychological distress, social isolation, and occupational difficulties, posing a significant financial burden in the form of physician visits, hospital care, prescription drugs, and over-the-counter products for treating the symptom (Yosipovitch et al. 2003; Bickers et al. 2006). Given that itch is a significant clinical problem afflicting a large worldwide population of humans, there is a strong need for more research on the cause, prevention, and treatment of itch, especially to advance the discovery of efficacious therapy for the treatment of itch originated from various nervous system disorders. The present review highlights the functions of central opioid receptor subtypes in regulating itch sensation.
Members of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family have emerged as key players in itch transduction in the periphery. TRP family members are tetrameric cation selective channels that are expressed in diverse species, from flies to humans. The founding member of the TRP channel superfamily is Drosophila TRP, a transduction channel required for light-evoked excitation of photoreceptors. In phototransduction, activation of the phospholipase C (PLC) pathway leads to the opening of TRP and its homolog TRP-L; flies lacking these channels display no light-evoked transduction currents and are blind. Over 27 members have since been identified in a variety of cell types and tissues (Figure 16.1).(15) TRP channels are divided into seven subgroups based on protein homology rather than function: TRPC, TRPV, TRPM, TRPA, TRPN, TRPP, and TRPML. Generally, TRP channels function as polymodal cellular sensors involved in a wide variety of cellular processes. Many TRPs have been found to participate in sensory transduction pathways, including thermosensation, mechanosensation, taste, perception of pungent compounds, pheromone sensing, and osmolarity regulation. A number of excellent reviews describe the vast roles of TRP channels which will not be discussed.(15) Here, we discuss the role of four TRP channels that have been proposed to play a role in itch transduction: TRPV1, TRPA1, TRPM8, and TRPV3. Historically, these four channels have been implicated in the transduction of noxious thermal, chemical, and/or mechanical stimuli, and more recent studies have implicated these channels in the transduction of itch.
Since the ascent of functional imaging based on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), in particular of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), many studies have dealt with the processing of pain in the human central nervous system (for review, see Treede et al. 1999). Before the advent of modern cerebral imaging, it has been supposed that the experience of pain is multidimensional (Melzack and Casey 1968). Therefore, it was not surprising that no single central pain center has been found. From many functional imaging studies a general notion evolved that pain is processed in a cerebral pain network. In a meta-analysis of 69 studies employing experimental pain stimuli, the following cerebral areas were encountered in descending order of frequency: insular cortex (both anterior and posterior), anterior and medial cingulate gyrus, somatosensory thalamus, somatosensory projection fields S2 (operculum) and S1 (gyrus postcentralis), and lateral and medial cortex fields (Apkarian et al. 2005). This cortical pain network can roughly be divided in a lateral portion (somatosensory projection areas) supposed to serve mainly the sensory evaluative dimension of pain and a medial portion consisting of limbic and prefrontal areas serving the emotional dimension (Treede et al. 1999).
Atopic dermatitis (AD; atopic eczema, eczema) is an inflammatory, chronically relapsing, and intensely pruritic skin disease occurring often in families with atopic diseases (atopic dermatitis, bronchial asthma, and/or allergic rhino-conjunctivitis). AD is a noncontagious inflammation of the epidermis and dermis with characteristic clinical (itch, erythema, papule, seropapule, vesicle, squames, crusts, lichenification, in synchronous, or metachronous polymorphy) and dermatopathological (spongiosis, acanthosis, hyper- and parakeratosis, lymphocytic infiltrates, and exocytosis, eosinophils) signs. With a prevalence of 2% to 5% (in children and young adults around 15%), AD is one of the most common skin diseases. The varying etiologic concepts of this disease are mirrored by the different names that are or have been used: neurodermatitis, neurodermitis, and endogenous eczema are just a few examples of current terms. Atopy is a strikingly common finding in these patients (Hanifin and Rajka 1980). It can be defined as familial hypersensitivity of the skin and the mucosa to environmental substances, associated with increased production of immunoglobulin E (IgE) and/or altered pharmacologic reactivity (Ring et al. 2006; Ring 2004). More recently, a new definition for atopy, restricted to IgE production, has been proposed: a personal or familial tendency to produce IgE antibodies in response to low doses of allergens, usually proteins, and to develop typical symptoms such as asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis, or eczema/dermatitis (Johansson et al. 2004, pp. 832836).
While it is often stated that pruritus is the most frequent symptom in dermatology and that it may also occur in internal, neurological, and psychiatric/somatoform diseases as well as that it may be drug-induced, there are surprisingly few studies about the prevalence or incidence of pruritus in particular diseases or patient populations. The situation is made worse by the following: Many patients with acute pruritus but also with chronic pruritus do not present to a physician (Weisshaar et al. 2003; Matterne et al. 2009). This may be the result, for instance, of how the local health system is organized or how access to specialists is regulated (the question of whether a patient can see a specialist directly or only by referral). This explains the need for population-based studies on prevalence and incidence of chronic pruritus. The symptom pruritus often receives only minor attention in non-dermatological specialties and is often not considered a variable worth assessing (Weisshaar et al. 2003). The findings of studies on pruritus are often difficult to compare or interpret due to the fact that parameters are not operationalized in a consistent manner (e.g., lack of unanimously accepted definition and classification of pruritus). Clinical studies often use outcome measures that are not clearly defined. For instance, it is important to distinguish between the point (Are you currently suffering from), period (During the last 12 months have you suffered from), and lifetime (Have you ever in your life suffered from) prevalence and clearly communicate the particular kind of prevalence estimate that was measured in a publication. The symptom whether acute or chronic may fluctuate; e.g., it may not occur daily. The most recent classification provided by International Forum for the Study of Itch (IFSI) appears the most comprehensive so far but is far from being perfect.
Itch (or pruritus) has been defined as an unpleasant sensation that provokes the desire to scratch. Itch is also believed to signal danger from various environmental factors or physiological abnormalities. Therefore, it frequently accompanies a variety of inflammatory skin conditions and systemic diseases. Histamine is the best-known pruritogen in humans and also acts as an experimental itch-causing substance. Clinically, antihistamines, i.e., histamine H1-receptor blockers, are commonly used to treat all types of itching resulting from renal and liver diseases, as well as from serious skin diseases such as atopic dermatitis. However, antihistamines often lack efficacy in patients with chronic itch that may involve other agonists, including proteases, neuropeptides, cytokines, and opioids, and their cognate receptors, such as thermoreceptors, PARs, Mrgprs, and opioid receptors. Such pruritogenic mediators and modulators released in the periphery may directly activate itch-sensitive fibers, especially C-fibers, by binding to specific receptors on the nerve terminals (Ikoma et al. 2006; Paus et al. 2006; Xiao and Patapoutian 2011). Nerve fibers are also activated by exogenous mechanical, chemical, and biological stimuli, resulting in itch responses (Akiyama et al. 2010; Tominaga and Takamori 2010). Histological analyses have shown that epidermal nerve densities are increased in patients with atopic dermatitis and xerosis, suggesting that the higher density is partly responsible for itch sensitization in the periphery. Such hyperinnervation is probably caused by an imbalance of nerve elongation factors, such as nerve growth factor (NGF), and nerve repulsion factors, such as semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), produced by keratinocytes (Tominaga and Takamori 2010). These axonal guidance molecules may also act on keratinocytes, immune cells and vascular endothelial cells, and be indirectly involved in the modulation of itching. This chapter presents recent knowledge regarding itch sensitization associated with epidermal nerve density controlled by NGF and Sema3A, especially in atopic dermatitis.
In the late nineteenth century, physiologists began to regard pain as a sensation. At first this seemed to be a strange idea, because pain is so closely associated with suffering and hence with the realm of emotions. One of the first scientists relating pain to certain mechanisms of transmission of peripheral stimuli into the central nervous system was Ren Descartes in the seventeenth century. He outlined his idea of nerve conduction on the example of heat pain, thus placing it alongside the classical sense of vision (Descartes 1969). In the early nineteenth century, at the dawn of a naturalistic physiology, Johannes Mueller formulated his Gesetz der spezifischen Sinnesenergien, i.e., the postulate that each sense is subserved by its specific neuronal sensory and nervous apparatus (Mueller 1837). In the last decade of the nineteenth century, when physiology had reached a first peak as a natural science, several researchers made the observation that the skin, our largest sensory organ, can be regarded as a mosaic of sensory spots that can be stimulated separately with fine probes to evoke pure sensations of touch, warmth, or cold. Pioneers of this research were the Swedish physiologist Blix, the German Goldscheider, and the Austrian/German von Frey. Max von Frey was the most systematic and important of this group. He developed an easy and reliable method to stimulate the touch points with Tasthaar stimulators, nowadays called von Frey filaments. By employing thin and sharp plant spicules he found locations between the touch points where such a fine spicule could induce pain without accompanying touch sensation. From this finding he deduced his famous specificity theory of pain. One can still have a feeling of his enthusiasm for this discovery when he wrote (von Frey 1896; see also Handwerker and Brune 1987, p. 95) With this hypothesis, pain was accepted in the realm of the senses. The specificity hypothesis was a basis for searching a dedicated peripheral and central nervous apparatus. For the peripheral nervous system this hypothesis converged with the line of thinking of C. S. Sherrington, who had found in animal experiments that withdrawal reflexes, the correlate of pain sensations in humans, are elicited by the excitation of a special kind of nerve fibers that he called nociceptors (Sherrington 1906). The specificity theory was controversial from the beginning. von Freys colleague Goldscheider (who was a famous clinician besides being a physiologist) used the same kind of stimulators but came to contradictory results. By inserting the spicules not perpendicularly but slantwise, he found always a touch before a pain sensation. He formulated an intensity hypothesis of pain: weak stimuli applied to the skin induce always touch-like sensations at first, and only when becoming more intense this sensation turns to pain (Goldscheider 1898). At this point I have to leave the saga of the development of pain concepts, because the topic of this article is itch, not pain.
The study of the physiological effects of histamine has a long history, spanning more than a century. Drugs that target histamine have been very successful, and even those not in the medical profession recognize that antihistamines are effective treatments for the symptoms of allergies and rhinitis. Histamine research has also spawned a wealth of scientific literature, and a search of the term histamine in PubMed yields almost 80,000 references. Even back in 1953, Sir Henry Dale himself said in his memoirs that histamine is by now almost too familiar (Dale 1953, p. 119). Yet new functions are still being uncovered, and this is prompting the development of new drugs that target histamine. Histamine results from the decarboxylation of histidine, and was first described synthetically by Windaus and Vogt in 1907 (Windaus and Vogt 1907). Shortly thereafter, Dale and colleagues found that it was a natural constituent of ergot, which was potent in inducing contraction of certain muscles (Barger and Dale 1910; Dale and Laidlaw 1911). Further work suggested that the effects of histamine were similar to those seen with anaphylaxis (Dale and Laidlaw 1911). Interestingly, Dale did not use the obvious name, histamine, as he explained in his memoirs (Dale 1953), because it was claimed to be too similar to a trademark; Dale instead used the chemical name -iminazolylethylamine. In addition to this, Dale took great care in his early work not to suggest that histamine was actually involved in normal physiological processes: a possibility that was almost clamouring to be recognized, in his own words (Dale 1953, p. 337). The statement that histamine played a physiological role in vivo had to await the proof of its existence as a natural component of tissue. This was hinted at by early work (Barger and Dale 1911; Abel and Kubota 1919) but was not shown conclusively until 1927 (Best et al. 1927). By 1929, in his Croonain Lectures, Dale readily acknowledged that histamine was a normal constituent of many tissues (Dale 1929). We now know that histamine is produced by many cell types and can be stored by cells such as mast cells, basophils, enterochromaffin-like cells, and neurons. Release from these cells mediates many of the functions that we now intimately associate with histamine, i.e., allergy, gastric acid secretion, neuron transmission, anaphylaxis, etc. Early work linked histamine with responses to trauma in the skin. Injury, firm stroking of the skin, or many other stimuli cause a triple response of local vasodilation, local edema, and flare, which were described in work by Sir Thomas Lewis and coworkers and summarized in his book, The Blood Vessels of the Human Skin (Lewis 1927). Lewis recognized that injury to the skin liberated a substance that resembled, at least in its action, histamine. He carefully termed this the H-substance because there was no proof that histamine existed in skin, although it was clear he suspected the agent was histamine. He states, it is difficult to refrain from stating without reserve the simple conclusion that the vasodilator substance considered and the H-substance are one and the same, and that this substance is histamine (Lewis 1927, p. 235). Others were not as cautious. In his 1929 Croonain Lectures, Dale discussed this in depth and concluded that the suggestion was obvious thatLewis H-substance, was histamine itself, not newly formedbut already existing, although he acknowledged that final proof required the substance to be isolated (Dale 1929, p. 1235).
In this chapter we discuss the findings of neuroimaging studies that investigated the processing of itch and scratching in the superior relays of central nervous system (CNS), when itch was induced experimentally or when pathological pruritus was studied as a preexisting condition in chronic diseases. Imaging the central processing of itch can lead to a better understanding of itch perception and its mechanisms, provide insight into potentially altered CNS processing of pruritus in disease states, and identify sources of central sensitization. Brain imaging can detect functional and anatomic changes in chronic itch and can ultimately indicate how itch can be inhibited for therapeutic purposes.
Advances in itch research have elucidated differences between itch and pain but have also blurred the distinction between them. There has been a long debate about how somatic sensations including touch, pain, itch, and temperature sensitivity are encoded by the nervous system. Research suggests that each sensory modality is processed along a fixed, direct-line communication system from the skin to the brain. Itch: Mechanisms and Treatment presents a timely update on all aspects of itch research and the clinical treatment of itch that accompanies many dermatological conditions including psoriasis, neuropathic itch, cutaneous t-cells lymphoma, and systemic diseases such as kidney and liver disease and cancer. Composed of contributions from distinguished researchers around the world, the book explores topics such as Neuropathic itch. Peripheral neuronal mechanism of itch. The role of PAR-2 in neuroimmune communication and itch. Mrgprs as itch receptors. The role of interleukin-31 and oncostatin M in itch and neuroimmune communication. Spinal coding of itch and pain. Spinal microcircuits and the regulation of itch. Examining new findings on cellular and molecular mechanisms, the book is a compendium of the most current research on itch, its prevalence in society, and the problems associated with treatment.
Psoriasis is a chronic, inflammatory skin disease affecting about 1% to 3% of the Caucasian population and slightly less frequently occurring also in other races. The most common variant of psoriasis, namely, plaque-type psoriasis, is clinically characterized by the presence of well-demarcated papules and plaques covered by silvery scales, which classically demonstrate symmetric distribution involving most commonly scalp, sacral area, and extensor surfaces of elbows and knees (Figure 4.1). Less often skin lesions may occur within the flexures and on the face. Other clinical subtypes include guttate, erythrodermic, and generalized or localized pustular psoriasis. Many patients (up to 80%) have nail abnormalities, and some of them (about 5%30%) develop psoriatic arthritis. The disease may occur at any age, but two peaks of morbidity can be observed: the first one between 20 and 30 years of age, and the second one between 50 and 60 years of age (van de Kerkhof 2003). The pathogenesis of psoriasis is still not completely understood. The genetic background seems to be the most important factor, and many genes have been identified to predispose to this skin disease so far (van de Kerkhof 2003; Reich and Szepietowski 2007). However, environmental factors like infections, stress, some drugs, smoking, or alcohol also play a role. Altogether, genetic and extrinsic factors lead to abnormal keratinocyte proliferation, cutaneous inflammation, and skin vessel disturbances finally resulting in clinical features of psoriasis (Reich and Szepietowski 2007). To date, a number of treatment options of psoriasis have been developed, but none is a curative one. Patients with psoriasis frequently experience relapses of skin lesions, causing a need of a lifelong therapy. This may also lead to discouragement and abandonment of treatment. Because of its chronicity and visibility, psoriasis is responsible for significant distress, suffering, decrease of quality of life level, and stigmatization (Bhm et al. 2013; Hrehorw et al. 2012; Raho et al. 2012). Several studies documented that patients with psoriasis often suffer from chronic pruritus, which further contributes to lowering of psoriatic patients well-being (Yosipovitch et al. 2000; Reich et al. 2010a).
Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) are a group of lymphoproliferative disorders characterized by a clonal accumulation of neoplastic memory T-lymphocytes in the skin (Girardi et al. 2004; Meyer et al. 2010). CTCL are the most common primary cutaneous lymphomas. Their incidence has increased from 5 cases per 1,000,000 in the 1980s to 12.7 per 1,000,000 in the 2000s (Bradford et al. 2009). Mycosis fungoides (MF) is the most common variant of CTCL. Typically, patients initially present with erythematous patches in sun-protected areas, which may progress to plaques and possibly skin tumors. Szary syndrome (SS) is a more aggressive form of CTCL, characterized by the association of an exfoliative erythroderma with the presence of atypical mononuclear cells in the skin and in the peripheral blood (Sezary cells). Patients with early stage CTCL have a good prognosis, whereas the prognosis is poorer for patients with late-stage disease (Klemke et al. 2005; Willemze et al. 2005). CTCL can cause significant morbidity and adversely affect patients quality of life (Demierre et al. 2003, 2005, 2006), in part owing to the fact that CTCL are highly associated with pruritus (Demierre and Taverna 2006). CTCL have multiple subtypes (Willemze et al. 2005).
Dermatologists are increasingly aware that some cases of unexplained chronic itch are caused by underlying neurological disease, and some now seek neurological care for these patients, but few neurologists feel prepared to help. This overview is intended both to guide clinicians and to suggest research topics. A PubMed search referencing the terms neuropathic itch plus neuropathic pruritus on December 22, 2012, yielded only 101 primary and review citations. Other relevant papers are not retrieved by these search terms as they may not even contain the words itch or pruritus, but instead refer to distressing sensory symptoms or to self-injurious scratching (often by other names, e.g., trigeminal tropic syndrome). The fragmented literature attests to the current rudimentary state of awareness about neuropathic itch.
A critical role of various proteases in skin homeostasis as well as pathobiology, including itch, was described decades ago (Arthur and Shelley 1955; Rajka 1967, 1969; Shelley and Arthur 1955). Later, after the cloning of protease-activated receptors-1 (PAR-1) in 1991 (Vu et al. 1991) and the characterization of PAR-2 in the skin (DAndrea et al. 1998; Derian et al. 1997; Hou et al. 1998; Santulli et al. 1995; Schechter et al. 1998; Steinhoff et al. 1999), some of the effects of endogenous or exogenous proteases could be attributedat least in partto the activation of those G-protein-coupled receptors. In 2000, a role of PAR-2 in skin neurogenic inflammation and later in human pruritus was established (Steinhoff et al. 2000, 2003). This review highlights our current understanding of proteases as histamine-independent pruritogens that are mainlybut not exclusivelymediated via protease-activated receptors. For more detailed information about the cellular mechanisms of PAR function, the reader is referred to exquisitely detailed reviews (Cottrell et al. 2002; Ossovskaya and Bunnett 2004; Steinhoff et al. 2005). Various proteases such as mucunain, trypsin, kallikreins (KLK), or tryptase have been demonstrated to exert capacities as pruritogens in rodents or humans in vivo (Cormia and Dougherty 1960; Costa et al. 2008; Hgermark 1974; Hagermark et al. 1972; Hansson et al. 2002; Ny and Egelrud 2003; Reddy et al. 2008; Stefansson et al. 2008; Steinhoff et al. 2003; Ui et al. 2006). Accordingly, increased tryptase serum levels have been described in hemodialysis patients, interestingly correlating with itch severity, as well as in patients with atopic dermatitis (AD) (Dugas-Breit et al. 2005; Kawakami et al. 2006). On the basis of these findings, it is important to understand the mechanisms how protease activated receptors, in particular, PAR-2 but probably also PAR-4, regulate protease-dependent, but histamine-independent itch. This is also of major medical interest since serine proteases like KLK, matriptase, prostasin, or tryptase have been implicated in various pruritic diseases including atopic dermatitis, Netherton syndrome, psoriasis, anaphylaxis-associated itch, dry skin itch, or renal insufficiency-associated itch, for example (Zhu et al. 2009a; Akiyama et al. 2009, 2010a, 2010b, 2010c). However, the itch symptom as observed in patients with AD, other eczematous diseases, neuropathic or systemic disease-associated itch, or tumor-associated itch is mostly resistant to therapy with oral antihistamines. In this context, it is important to note that the itch sensation can be triggered by endogenous (KLK, matriptase, trypsins, and prostasin) or exogenous (e.g., house dust mite allergens Dpt. 1, 3, 9 or certain Staphylococcus aureus toxins) factors that are partly proteases (Jeong et al. 2008; Kato et al. 2009; Lee et al. 2010; Lutfi et al. 2012; Frateschi et al. 2011). Unfortunately, the mechanisms by which itch is controlled in antihistamine unresponsive pruritic diseases are still poorly understood in humans, and effective therapeutic options represent a significant unmet need (Hong et al. 2011; Buddenkotte and Steinhoff 2010). As will be pointed out later in this book chapter in greater detail, PAR-2 is widely expressed by different cell types including suprabasal keratinocytes, endothelial cells, mast cells, neutrophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, and sensory nerve fibers, for example (Bhm et al. 1996). Recent findings indicate that keratinocytes can also be seen as a sensory forefront of neuronal activation and signaling (Elias and Steinhoff 2008). Upon activation by trigger factors that are potentially deleterious for the body system, such as microbes, noxious heat/cold, UV radiation, chemicals, allergens, or proteases, keratinocytes are capable of releasing factors that subsequently activate peripheral nerve endings to induce neurogenic inflammation, increased skin sensitivity, and pain or itch (Roosterman et al. 2006; Ma 2010). The factors that mediate this epidermalneuronal communication during chronic inflammation and itch are, however, currently poorly understood and include at least ATP, endorphin, and endothelin-1 (ET-1) (Caterina et al. 2000; Imamachi et al. 2009; Kido et al. 2011). Several studies indicate that proteases like KLK, trypsin, or tryptase are important activators of neuronal and/or keratinocyte-derived PAR-2, which subsequently induces itch directly (direct activation of nerve endings) or indirectly via activation of keratinocyte PAR-2 by endogenous or exogenous proteases. Activation of keratinocyte-derived PAR-2 leads to the release of as yet unidentified mediators, which activate sensory nerves and lead to itch and neuroinflammation, as well as nerve sprouting and/or skin hypersensitivity (Figure 11.1) (Frateschi et al. 2011; Stefansson et al. 2008; Moormann et al. 2006; Steinhoff et al. 1999, 2000, 2003, 2005). This chapter gives a comprehensive overview how proteases act via PAR-2 to trigger itch and skin inflammation. Our review highlights the mechanisms by which proteases act via PAR receptors to exert important biological and pathobiological functions in the skin with a focus on itch and neurogenic inflammation. Understanding these mechanisms may lead to novel therapies against acute as well as chronic, recalcitrant itch.
Maintaining the composition and volume of the extracellular fluid (ECF) and intracellular fluid (ICF) within a restricted range of variation is critical for normal tissue perfusion and cellular function (Strange 1993). The ECF is primarily composed by the vascular and extravascular (interstitial) fluid, and has sodium as a determinant ion of its osmolarity and volume. The ECF/plasma volume ratio is of utmost importance for maintaining vascular capacitance and, consequently, venous return, cardiac output, and arterial pressure (Ramsay 1991). Maintaining the variability of the ECF volume within a strict range is a central goal of homeostatic mechanisms. The central nervous system (CNS) is informed about alterations in volume and tonicity of the ECF through the activity of peripheral and central sensory receptors. Receptors that respond to alterations in the volume of ECF are sensitive to the degree of mechanical distension of blood vessels or cardiac chamber (reviewed by Bourque 2008). They are located in the wall of the atrium and pulmonary vessels (cardiopulmonary receptors), and in the adventitia of the aortic arch/carotid sinus (arterial baroreceptors), or renal afferent arterioles (renal baroreceptors). These receptors mediate central autonomic reflexes through primary connections to the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) or mediate renorenal reflexes. Receptors that respond to alterations in ICF are sensitive to ECF tonicity or effective osmotic concentration (Bourque 2008; Kuramochi and Kobayashi 2000; McKinley et al. 1992). They are located in renal, intestinal, and hepatic vessels, in the wall of the gastrointestinal tract and oropharyngeal cavity and in brain circumventricular organs, notably area postrema, subfornical organ (SFO), and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT). Efferent responses to the activation of these receptors include renal sympathetic nerve activity, hormone secretion [atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), oxytocin, vasopressin, reninangiotensin II], and hemodynamic changes. Such responses culminate in controlled alterations of renal sodium and water excretion. Among these several mechanisms and responses, we would like to call attention to those associated with ECF volume expansion. Dehydration is a menace to immediate survival, but volume expansion is associated with long-term changes that affect health, particularly hypertension and heart failure (reviewed by Antunes-Rodrigues et al. 2004; Toney and Stocker 2010; Toney et al. 2010). Conversely, hypertonic NaCl also has a potential therapeutic value to recovery from hemorrhagic shock (Pedrino et al. 2011; Rocha e Silva et al. 1986; Velasco et al. 1980). In this chapter, we will focus on cardiovascular responses to volume expansion and hypertonicity, their sensory afferences, and how these responses are subserved by a brainstemhypothalamicpreoptic axis and its associated cathecolaminergic pathways.
The maintenance of extracellular fluid (ECF) osmolality within narrow limits of variation is essential for the functioning of cells. The constant composition of the internal environment is primarily regulated by the balance between the intake and renal excretion of both sodium and water (Denton et al. 1996).
The dominant role of the brain in the hierarchical control of the autonomic nervous system demands that it receive extensive afferent information regarding the milieu interieur. This information is derived from two primary sources: (1) peripheral and visceral sensory systems that transmit information through classical sensory pathways into the central nervous system (CNS) and (2) sensory systems in the brain that monitor the constituents of the circulation to assess the physiological status of the individual. However, in view of its protected position behind the bloodbrain barrier (BBB), the CNS is theoretically unable to monitor many of the most significant controlled variables that constitute this internal environment (osmolarity, glucose, calcium, lipophobic amino acids, and peptide concentrations). Thus, although the BBB acts to protect the brain from large shifts in these variables (their fine control is a prerequisite for normal CNS function), in theory, it also precludes CNS monitoring of such essential information regarding the physiological status of the internal environment. The logic of such a system is clear, providing the brain can gain access to essential sensory information through alternative mechanisms. A specialized group of CNS structures, which lack the normal BBB, the circumventricular organs (CVOs), provide such an alternative, and they thus play a pivotal role in bloodbrain communication. Within these structures, circulating substances can directly influence individual CNS neurons, whichthrough efferent projections to autonomic control centers in the hypothalamus and medulla (Figure 2.1) transmit this information for integration leading to appropriate modulation of autonomic outputs, and thus maintenance of healthy autonomic state. In addition, considerable recent information suggests that the CVOs sense multiple signals traditionally thought to be of importance in separate physiological systems, including fluid balance (angiotensin II, natriuretic peptides, osmolarity), metabolic control (amylin, ghrelin, leptin), reproduction (relaxin), and immune regulation [interleukin-1  (IL-1 ), interleukin-6 (IL-6)], although the boundaries delimiting these specific functional roles are rapidly disappearing. The purpose of this chapter is to consider the potential mechanisms through which single CVO neurons can sense and integrate the critical information from multiple circulating signals of autonomic status. I will specifically describe the literature suggesting that single subfornical organ (SFO) neurons respond to separate signals relaying information regarding body fluid and metabolic status with a focus on nonselective cationic conductances as a site at which such integration may occur. I will first consider some of the primary circulating molecules that provide key sensory information to the CNS in each of these systems.
Classical thirst stimuli can be modified by other ongoing physiologic conditions. In addition, although food intake and water drinking are traditionally seen as contemporaneous behaviors, stimuli for food intake can be separated from water drinking and vice versa. In this chapter, we address two issues: independence of the two behaviors and the impact of non-thirstrelated stimuli on water drinking behaviors. Do all stimuli for food intake induce concomitant water drinking? Although pattern analysis of ad libitum food and water consumption definitively demonstrated the coordination of those two behaviors (de Castro 1988; Fitzsimons and LeMagnen 1969; Kissileff 1969), it is clear that water drinking can occur under physiologic conditions in the absence of food intake (Zorilla et al. 2005), and even under conditions of water restriction some food intake does occur (Fitzsimons and LeMagnen 1969; Zorilla et al. 2005). However, a more physiologic approach to the concordance of the two behaviors is the examination of the intervals of water drinking during 24 h, ad libitum periods, and under these conditions, significant amounts of water are consumed independent of food intake (Zorilla et al. 2005). This may seem obvious when one considers the importance of osmotic and volemic stimuli for drinking; however, when one considers water drinking in the presence of food intake, a certain necessity for the coincident behaviors overrides their independence. This is in no small part due to the lubricative function of fluid taken with solid food, and the resulting osmotic stimuli following solute absorption in the stomach and intestines. But do all stimuli for food intake also stimulate drinking? Evidence from the Daniels laboratory (Mietlicki et al. 2009) provides a clear, negative answer.
Angiotensin II (AngII) is a key component in the maintenance of body fluid homeostasis. It has potent dipsetic and natriorexigenic effects when injected into the brain of rats. This ingestive response to AngII is so reliable that AngII is frequently used to verify proper placement of cannulae in forebrain ventricles, even by laboratories with little interest in fluid intake. The actions of AngII have been an important focus in the study of fluid intake, but have also been particularly informative in other fields of study. Much of our knowledge about the means by which peripherally derived peptides act in the brain, for example, has been greatly influenced by earlier studies that identified central targets of AngII. The central targets of AngII are numerous. Perhaps the most interesting among them are the forebrain circumventricular organs (CVOs), which reside on the anterior wall of the third ventricle. The subfornical organ (SFO) and the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT) (for review, see Daniels and Fluharty 2004; Phillips 1987) are critical for many central actions of AngII. The hypothesis that AngII acts directly on CVOs is supported by a variety of experimental approaches. Lesion techniques have shown that ablation of the SFO or the periventricular area containing the OVLT dramatically reduces the water or NaCl intake stimulated by AngII (Buggy and Johnson 1978; Morris et al. 2002; Simpson et al. 1978). Small amounts of AngII injected directly into the SFO or OVLT, on the other hand, increase water and NaCl intake (Mangiapane and Simpson 1979, 1980). Experiments using receptor autoradiography demonstrated high levels of AngII receptor expression in CVO structures (for review, see Allen et al. 2000) and studies of brain activation using deoxyglucose (Kadekaro et al. 1989) or Fos immunohistochemistry (McKinley et al. 1995; Rowland et al. 1994a,b, 1995) highlight these areas as central AngII targets. Electrophysiological recordings have also been useful in the study of central responses to AngII. Early whole-cell patch clamp recordings from SFO neurons demonstrated AngII-induced excitation (Li and Ferguson 1993a,b) and suggested that the excitation occurred by inhibition of transient outward currents (Ferguson and Li 1996). More recent reports have supported these earlier findings (e.g., Ono et al. 2005), firmly establishing the SFO as a brain area that is sensitive to AngII. Although many studies have confirmed the importance of the forebrain CVOs in the actions of AngII, these areas initially were an attractive focus primarily because they lack a bloodbrain barrier and AngII does not cross the bloodbrain barrier (Harding et al. 1988). AngII receptors have been found in numerous brain areas and, other than the CVOs, these brain areas do not appear accessible to peripherally derived AngII. The apparent paradox of AngII responsive brain areas without an endogenous source of AngII has been solved by the more recent discovery that the brain contains components of the reninangiotensin system (Sakai and Sigmund 2005). In what appears to be a fascinating coincidence, cells in the same structure that responds to AngII made in the periphery, the SFO, use AngII as a peptide transmitter (Li and Ferguson 1993a,b). The receptors for AngII fall into two main subtypes, type 1 (AT1) and type 2 (AT2) receptors. The intake effects of AngII appear to be exclusively driven by action at the AT1 receptor. AT1 receptors are expressed at relatively high levels in the CVOs and other CNS structures (Bunnemann et al. 1992; Rowe et al. 1992; Song et al. 1992), and experimental manipulation of these receptors has notable effects on fluid intake. Mice with genetic disruption of the gene for the AT1 receptor have a severely impaired water intake response to AngII injection (Li et al. 2003), and AT1-specific antagonists or antisense oligonucleotides attenuate the intake responses to AngII (Beresford and Fitzsimons 1992; Sakai et al. 1994, 1995; Weisinger et al. 1997). Although most commonly referred to as the AT1 receptor, this nomenclature actually comprises two receptor isoforms, the AT1a and AT1b receptors. These isoforms are identical in the number of amino acids (359 in both the rat and mouse), but have 17 residues that differ in the rat and 22 residues that differ in the mouse. Although there are several reports of anatomical localization of the two AT1 receptor subtypes, inconsistencies in the reports and the potential for species differences remain to be resolved. For example, an early study in rats used polymerase chain reaction to demonstrate expression of AT1a and AT1b receptors in CVO structures and hypothalamus (Kakar et al. 1992), but subsequent in situ hybridization studies indicate that the AT1a receptor is the predominant or the only receptor type in rat CVO structures and in the hypothalamus, whereas the AT1b receptor is expressed in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus (Johren et al. 1995). Studies conducted predominantly in mice, however, have revealed interesting differences in the role of these AT1 receptor isoforms and their regulation by perturbations in fluid balance. Specifically, selective gene targeting found that the AT1b receptor is critical for the drinking response to central injections of AngII in mouse (Davisson et al. 2000), and other studies found that dehydration increased AT1a receptor expression in forebrain CVOs, but AT1b receptor expression was unaffected (Chen and Morris 2001). The latter of these studies, however, reported expression of both AT1a and AT1b receptors in CVO structures, suggesting that the distribution in the mouse and the rat may be different. A different anatomical distribution and different roles of the receptor isoforms may explain the differences between mice and rats in their responsiveness to AngII. Specifically, lateral ventricle injections of ~5 ng of AngII are sufficient to stimulate water intake in rats, but far greater amounts (~100200 ng) are needed to stimulate water intake in mice and AngII is surprisingly not dipsetic when injected peripherally in mice (Rowland et al. 2003). Accordingly, it is appropriate to be cautious when attempting to apply findings generated in one species to another species.
Changes in body water/sodium balance are tightly controlled by the central nervous system (CNS) to avoid abnormal cardiovascular function and the development of pathological states. Every time there is a disturbance in extracellular sodium concentration or body sodium content, there is also a change in extracellular fluid volume and, depending on its magnitude, this can be associated with an adjustment in arterial blood pressure (BP). The process of sensory integration takes place in different nuclei, with diverse phenotypes and at different levels of the CNS. To control those several changes, the CNS receives continuous input about the status of extracellular fluid osmolarity, sodium concentration, sense of taste, fluid volume, and BP (Figure 9.1). Signals detected by taste receptors, peripheral osmo-sodium, volume receptors, and arterial/cardiopulmonary baroreceptors reach the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) by the VIIth, IXth, and Xth cranial nerves. The other main brain entry of the information related to fluid and cardiovascular balance are the lamina terminalis (LT) and one of the sensory circumventricular organs (CVOs), the area postrema (AP). The LT, consisting of the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) and the other two sensory CVOsi.e., subfornical organ (SFO) and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT) is recognized as a site in the brain that is crucial for the physiological regulation of hydroelectrolyte balance. The SFO and OVLT lack a bloodbrain barrier and contain cells that are sensitive to humoral signals, such as changes in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid sodium concentration (Vivas et al. 1990), osmolality (Sladek and Johnson 1983), and angiotensin II (ANG II) levels (Ferguson and Bains 1997; Simpson et al. 1978). Such unique features make the SFO and OVLT key brain regions for sensing the status of the body fluids and electrolytes. Humoral and neural signals that arrive to the two main brain entriesthat is, the CVOs of the LT and within the hindbrain the AP-NTSactivate a central circuit that includes integrative areas such as the MnPO, the paraventricular (PVN), the supraoptic (SON), lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN), dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), and neurochemical systems such as the angiotensinergic, vasopressinergic, oxytocinergic (OT), and serotonergic (5-HT) systems (Figures 9.1 and 9.2). Once these signals act on the above-mentioned neurochemical networks, they trigger appropriate sympathetic, endocrine, and behavioral responses. Therefore, after a body fluid deficit, water and sodium intake and excretion need to be controlled to minimize disturbances of hydromineral homeostasis. In this context, hypovolemia and hyponatremia induced by body fluid depletion stimulate central and peripheral osmosodium receptors, taste receptors, volume and arterial/cardiopulmonary baroreceptors, and the reninangiotensin system (RAS). This latter system, for example, acts mainly through the sensory CVOs and/or the AP to activate brain neural pathways that elevate BP, release vasopressin and aldosterone (ALDO), increase renal sympathetic nerve activity, and increase the ingestion of water and sodium. Among these responses, sodium appetite constitutes an important homeostatic behavior involved in seeking out and acquiring sodium from the environment. Under normal circumstances, the average daily intake of sodium in animals exceeds what is actually needed; however, when they are challenged by environmental (e.g., increased ambient temperature), physiological (e.g., exercise, pregnancy and lactation), or pathophysiological (e.g., emesis, diarrhea, adrenal, or kidney insufficiency) conditions, endocrine and autonomic mechanisms primarily target the kidney, to influence the rate of water and sodium loss, and the vasculature, to maintain arterial BP. Afterward, a behavioral mechanism such as sodium appetite is the means by which sodium loss to the environment is ultimately restored (Geerling and Loewy 2008). It is important to note that in humans, salt appetite is permanently enhanced after perinatal sodium loss (Crystal and Berstein 1995, 1998; Leshem 2009), but putative sodium loss in adults due to, for example, hemorrhage, dehydration, or breastfeeding, does not increase salt appetite significantly; thus, the existence of sodium appetite as a result of sodium loss in adult humans remains controversial (Bertino et al. 1982; Beauchamp et al. 1983, 1987; Leshem 2009). This review will focus on evidence from our laboratory for neurophysiological mechanisms that regulate sodium balance. Specifically, it tries to answer how the brain elicits sodium appetite in response to hyponatremia/hypovolemia associated with sodium depletion, which areas are activated after sodium depletion, how the brain controls the inhibition of this behavior once the deficit is compensated (satiety phase), and what role brain neurochemical groups have for endocrine responses. We close the chapter by analyzing the effects of gonadal hormones and sex chromosome complement (SCC) on sodium appetite and cardiovascular function, respectively.
Sodium is necessary for the survival of most, if not all, animals. It is the most prevalent of extracellular solutes, and because it is largely excluded from the intracellular fluid compartment by the cell plasma membrane, it in a sense comprises the true grit of the extracellular fluid. The maintenance of near-ideal concentrations of intracellular constituents is necessary for optimum cellular fitness and function. The concentration of impermeable solutes such as sodium in the extracellular fluid compartment is the major determinant of water movement across the plasma membrane. A high concentration of sodium in the extracellular space causes water to move out of cells and produces dehydration of the intracellular fluid compartment, whereas a low concentration of extracellular solute causes overhydration of intracellular space. In addition to its importance in establishing the distribution of fluid across semipermeable membranes, the relative concentration of extra- and intracellular sodium can also influence cellular functions. For example, the resting membrane potential of cells is in large part dependent on the relative concentrations of intracellular versus extracellular sodium, and the shape of action potentials generated by neurons is affected by the ratio of these two sodium concentrations. Animals cannot synthesize sodium, so that when the ion is lost from the body it must be acquired from external sources and ingested in order to restore homeostasis. Many mammalian species, especially omnivores and herbivores, display motivated behaviors of seeking and ingesting sodium-containing substances when they are sodium deficient. Collectively, the set of behaviors and the motivational state (i.e., drive) that mobilizes and directs animals to finding and consuming substances containing sodium is most often referred to as sodium or salt appetite. A common operational definition of sodium appetite is simply a significant increase in the intake of unpalatable saline solutions (usually 1.5% to 3% NaCl w/v) over a specified period in response to a deficit. Such hypertonic saline solutions are normally consumed in minimal quantities, or not consumed at all, by sodium-replete animals.
Maintenance of core body temperature within narrow bounds and the constancy of composition and volume of body fluids in mammals are probably the most iconic manifestations of homeostasis in mammals. The ability to keep the internal environment of their bodies as unchanged as possible in the face of hostile environments is one of the reasons for mammals being able to populate and survive in many regions of the planet. Whereas mammals that inhabit the cooler and temperate regions of the earth are less likely to experience extremes of high ambient temperatures or insufficient supply of water for maintaining bodily hydration, this is not the case for those species that exist in warmer and drier parts of the earth. The evolutionary emergence and survival of many mammalian species has resulted from adaptations that permit such animals to minimize and correct changes in core body temperature as well as deficits in body fluid volume and composition arising in hot, dry environments.
Salt intake is deranged because humans ingest vast quantities of salt with no clear utilityand despite substantial evidence of its deleterious effects. We review the paucity of ideas as to why this occurs and make some novel suggestions.
Body fluid homeostasis is maintained by a steady-state interchange of water between extracellular fluid (ECF) and intracellular fluid compartments. The main source of body water in terrestrial vertebrates is from drinking and, once in the body, it is distributed between body fluid compartments. The mechanisms that keep the body fluid osmolarity within its narrow range (280300 mOsm/L) depend on matching the water volume excreted by the kidneys and the fluid intake volume. Sodium is the main electrolyte in ECF and sodium loss or gain is usually accompanied by an increase or decrease in water in this compartment in order to maintain sodium concentration. Body sodium and fluid balance is achieved through mechanisms that control sodium intake and sodium urinary excretion. The relationship between water and sodium in ECF may change both the osmolarity and volume of this compartment. Whereas the osmolarity of ECF is regulated by water intake and renal water excretion, the volume is controlled by the sodium content in the ECF, which is determined by the amount of sodium intake and the amount of sodium excreted in the urine (Verbalis 2003). Changes in the water and sodium content of ECF may result in severe consequences to the cardiovascular system. Furthermore, some pathological cardiovascular conditions may lead to changes in body fluid homeostasis. Increased sodium levels in ECF increase the effective circulating volume, leading to an enhancement in cardiac output and blood pressure (BP). On the other hand, heart failure may decrease water and sodium urinary excretion, promoting a fluid disorder in the body. Therefore, it is unsurprising to find overlapping mechanisms controlling cardiovascular function and body fluid homeostasis. Multiple sensory signals that trigger thirst and sodium appetite in response to dehydration are basically produced by hyperosmolarity and/or hypovolemia of the ECF (Fitzsimons 1998; Johnson 2007; McKinley and Johnson 2004; Stricker and Sved 2000; Chapters 2, 3, 4, and 9 of this book). Such sensory information reaches the brain to facilitate or inhibit responses that correct changes in body fluidmineral balance and control cardiovascular function, thus activating a neural network of noradrenergic, cholinergic, angiotensinergic, GABAergic, vasopressinergic, oxytocinergic, and serotonergic pathways (Johnson 2007).
Body fluid homeostasis and arterial pressure are intimately related to the point that their control share many common mechanisms. The diagram shown in Figure 4.1 illustrates an interactive network (antidehydration network) activated by the dehydration of the two major body fluid compartments, extracellular [represented by the production of angiotensin II (ANG II)] and intracellular (represented by hyperosmolarity). The operation of the network involves redundancy and reciprocity and results in effector mechanisms that counteract dehydration. Although highly simplified (many important factors, e.g., aldosterone, are omitted), the network diagram suggests complex control systems orchestrated by the brain. When deranged, the operation of such systems may lead to pathologies, for example, hypertension. The brain circuit that counteracts dehydration has two main entrances or input paths for sensory information arising from the periphery (blood and viscera). They are located at opposite poles of an axis of multiple connections formed between hindbrain and forebrain. The preoptic periventricular tissue surrounding the anteroventral third ventricle (AV3V) forms a key region in the forebrain pole that integrates mechanisms to control the antidehydration network. The AV3V and the lamina terminalis share the organum vasculosum (OVLT) and the ventral median preoptic nucleus (MnPO). Also belonging to the lamina terminalis is the subfornical organ (SFO). The AV3V extends from the OVLT to the periventricular preoptic tissue until the rostral limits of the anterior hypothalamic area (Figure 4.2) (Brody and Johnson 1980; Menani et al. 1988b). The OVLT, along with the SFO, functions as a primary sensory station of the forebrain that monitors humoral factors such as circulating ANG II and osmolarity (Johnson 2007; McKinley et al. 2001; Chapter 2). The other entrance to the antidehydration brain circuit is located in the hindbrain and involves primary visceral sensory inputs in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and another circumventricular organ devoid of bloodbrain barrier, such as the OVLT and SFO, the area postrema (AP). The AV3V functions as a nodal structure that integrates and redistributes signals originated in visceral sensory organs to pattern generators of neuroendocrine, autonomic and somatic effector actions against dehydration and reduction in blood volume. It has an intimate connection with the lamina terminalis and connects with many other areas in the fore and hindbrain. As suggested in Figure 4.3, signals generated in the OVLT and SFO make their way out of the lamina terminalis through projections to forebrain structures such as the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus (PVN and SON, respectively), the lateral hypothalamus and the medial septal area (MSA) (Brody and Johnson 1980). The AV3V region also direct or indirectly connects with areas of the hindbrain that control blood pressure, including the NTS, AP and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) (Johnson 2007; Ricardo and Koh 1978; Saper et al. 1983; Whalen et al. 1999). The NTS and RVLM are the main areas of the medullary circuitry involved in cardiovascular control. The NTS located dorsally in the hindbrain is the site of the first synapse of baroreceptor, chemoreceptor, and cardiopulmonary receptor afferent fibers in the central nervous system, whereas the RVLM located in the ventral surface of the hindbrain is the main premotor sympathetic nuclei, projecting directly to the intermediolateral (IML) column in the spinal cord and responsible for the generation and maintenance of sympathetic vasomotor tone (Guyenet 2006). The reciprocal direct or indirect connections of the AV3V distributed along the forebrainhindbrain axis form the neuroanatomical basis for the AV3V as an integrative region. An important indirect connection of AV3V with hindbrain is made through the PVN, which mono- or polysynaptically connects with sympathetic neurons in IML (Westerhaus and Loewy 1999) or indirectly affects sympathetic activity through connections with the RVLM (Yang and Coote 1998). Moreover, the AV3V also has connections with salivatory nuclei in the pons (Hbschle et al. 2001). The role of the lamina terminalis for the sensory integration of thirst and sodium appetite has deserved a special review in a relatively recent past (Johnson 2007). In this chapter, we first briefly refresh data on the general role of AV3V on the control of body fluid homeostasis and its role for the secretion of the atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). Then, we review more recent data emphasizing the involvement of AV3V with salivary secretion, hindbrain control of cardiovascular function, and brain plasticity, in this order. Pilocarpine, a useful cholinergic agonist for therapeutics and experimental investigation about salivation, also affects arterial pressure and fluid balance. Early evidence for a central action of pilocarpine-induced salivation derived from studies with damage to the AV3V, but now we see that the same damage also interferes with the cardiovascular effects of pilocarpine. A role for AV3V on salivation linked to thermoregulation is also discussed. Then we show how AV3V influences the control of arterial blood pressure, first by presenting its role to sustain arterial pressure taking hemorrhage as a model, and second, by discussing compelling evidence for its role in the modulation of hindbrain mechanisms involved with short-term and long-term control of arterial pressure. Finally, we recall early evidence for brain recovery from AV3V damage and its implication for brain plasticity associated with sensitization of sodium intake before leading to conclusions.
A timely symposium entitled Body-Fluid Homeostasis: Transduction and Integration was held at Araraquara, So Paulo, Brazil in 2011. This meeting was convened as an official satellite of a joint gathering of the International Society for Autonomic Neuroscience (ISAN) and the American Autonomic Society (AAS) held in Buzios, Rio de Janeiro. Broad international participation at this event generated stimulating discussion among the invited speakers, leading to the publication of Neurobiology of Body Fluid Homeostasis: Transduction and Integration. Drawn from the proceedings and filled with rich examples of integrative neurobiology and regulatory physiology, this volume: Provides updated research using human and animal models for the control of bodily fluids, thirst, and salt appetite. Explores neural and endocrine control of body fluid balance, arterial pressure, thermoregulation, and ingestive behavior. Discusses recent developments in molecular genetics, cell biology, and behavioral plasticity. Reviews key aspects of brain serotonin and steroid and peptide control of fluid consumption and arterial pressure. The book highlights research conducted by leading scientists on signal transduction and sensory afferent mechanisms, molecular genetics, perinatal and adult longterm influences on regulation, central neural integrative circuitry, and autonomic/neuroendocrine effector systems. The findings discussed by the learned contributors are relevant for a basic understanding of disorders such as heat injury, hypertension, and excess salt intake. A unique reference on the neurobiology of body fluid homeostasis, this volume is certain to fuel additional research and stimulate further debate on the topic.
Instinctive behavior is intricately linked to organismal homeostasis and species survival (Denton et al. 1996, 2009; Lehrman 1953; Richter 1956). Instincts are embodied by the brain, in particular, the hypothalamus. The classic instinct of sodium appetite is commonly evoked by depletion, that is, lack of appropriate intake in the face of sodium loss, further by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) acting on the suprarenal cortex to produce gluco- and mineralocorticoids, which act on the brain, and associated with reproduction in pregnancy and lactation (Blair-West et al. 1995; De Luca et al. 2010; Denton et al. 1999; Johnson and Thunhorst 1997; Fitzsimons 1998; Morris et al. 2008; Na et al. 2007; Roitman et al. 1997; Wolf 1964). In a recent publication (Liedtke et al. 2011), we have elucidated gene-regulatory programs in the hypothalamus as underlying sodium appetite. Furthermore, we were able to attenuate sodium intake behavior of sodium appetite by application of antagonists of dopamine receptor-1 (DRD1) both systemically as well as by microinjection into the lateral hypothalamus. This chapter will elucidate these results and discuss them in a number of contexts not covered in the original publication. In the original report, the term gratification is used throughout. This refers to the subjective sentiment of feeling gratified after satiation of an instinctive cravingin this context, sodium appetite and thirst for waterbut in a general sense applicable to any instinct. Gratification, it can be argued, is difficult to verify in a setting of animal experimentation. However, its use to describe animal behavior by veteran researchers in the field is noteworthy and should be respected.
The reninangiotensin system (RAS) plays important roles in physiological control of cardiovascular systems and body fluid homeostasis in adults, and also in the pathogenesis of various cardiovascular (e.g., hypertension, stroke, ischemic heart disease), metabolic (e.g., diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome), and renal (e.g., glomerulitis, renal fibrosis) diseases (Barker 2002; Bichu et al. 2009; Carey and Siragy 2003; Nilsson et al. 2005; Re 2004a; Seckl and Holmes 2007). Since the theory of adult diseases in fetal origins was introduced, the development of the RAS in normal and abnormal patterns before birth has attracted considerable attention. A variety of evidence has demonstrated that the prenatal RAS is important, as an endocrine and paracrine system, in the control of body fluid homeostasis and neuroendocrine functions. This system is subject to a number of conditions or environmental insults during pregnancy and, through plasticity phenomena, could cause alterations either in physiological functions or morphological phenotypes related to blood pressure and body fluid homeostasis. The classic RAS means systemic or circulatory RAS, but growing evidence has demonstrated that almost all tissues and organs, and even single cells (e.g., cardiomyocyte, neuron), possess all components of RAS (Kumar et al. 2007; Re 2004b). This chapter focuses on the functional development of local RAS related to control of fetal cardiovascular and body fluid homeostasis, and impact of alternations of RAS during development in utero on programming of cardiovascular diseases. The ontogeny of local RAS in the fetal brain, cardiovascular, and renal systems is reviewed, then we discuss the functions of local RAS in regulation of organ development during prenatal period, and finally we consider the possible role or involvement of an altered RAS during critical developmental periods in health or diseases in later life.
Homeostasis is accepted universally as a synonym of equilibrium or stability in biological systems and commonly used to describe activities of cells, organs, individuals, and society (Abbott 2003; Cannon 1929; Palagi and Mancini 2011). Tradition and universal acceptance easily preclude more explanations about the concept of homeostasis, being unlikely that the reading of this book has caused much doubt about its meaning.
Serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] is a widespread monoaminergic neurotransmitter in the brain. Its neuronal population is among the first to differentiate in the mammalian brain (Gaspar et al. 2003), playing an important role in neurogenesis (Lauder and Krebs 1978) and in several normal physiological functions and pathological disorders throughout the mammalian life. There are 235,000 serotonergic neurons in the human midbrain raphe and 10,00012,000 multipolar cell in rats (Abrams et al. 2004; Adell et al. 2002). The 5-HT neurons exist in a widespread distributed system in the mammalian brain (Jacobs and Azmitia 1992), with a peculiar elevated density of serotonergic perikarya dispersed on or near the brainstems midline, where they are primarily located in the median (MRN) and dorsal raphe (DRN) nuclei (Azmitia and Segal 1978; Parent et al. 1981). The DRN is located in the ventral part of the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter and extends caudally, bordering the anterior portion of the pons. The DRNs serotonergic neurons are organized into a cluster arranged in several topographical subdivisions. Rostral projections of the DRN are arranged in a conspicuous manner, connected to an extensive collaborative distribution in the terminal fields (Azmitia 1987, 2001). According to Azmitia, different subsets of serotonergic neurons take part in the integrated coordination of neural control systems (Azmitia 1987, 2001; Jacobs and Azmitia 1992). This idea has been revisited by Abrams et al. (2004) through morphological and functional approaches.
Recently, our research team has reported that Tualang honey was able to improve immediate memory in postmenopausal women comparable with that of estrogen progestin therapy. Therefore the aim of the present study was to examine the effects of Tualang honey supplement on hippocampal morphology and memory performance in ovariectomized (OVX) rats exposed to social instability stress. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into six groups: (i) sham-operated controls, (ii) stressed sham-operated controls, (iii) OVX rats, (iv) stressed OVX rats, (v) stressed OVX rats treated with 17-estradiol (E2), and (vi) stressed OVX rats treated with Tualang honey. These rats were subjected to social instability stress procedure followed by novel object recognition (NOR) test. Right brain hemispheres were subjected to Nissl staining. The number and arrangement of pyramidal neurons in regions of CA1, CA2, CA3 and the dentate gyrus (DG) were recorded. Two-way ANOVA analyses showed significant interactions between stress and OVX in both STM and LTM test as well as number of Nissl-positive cells in all hippocampal regions. Both E2 and Tualang honey treatments improved both short-term and long-term memory and enhanced the neuronal proliferation of hippocampal CA2, CA3 and DG regions compared to that of untreated stressed OVX rats.




Giant intracranial aneurysms are a formidable challenge for treatment, considering their grim prognosis. Until lately, endovascular treatment options have been disappointing, and neurosurgical treatment results are by far the most promising. In the neurosurgical treatment of giant intracranial aneurysms, the non-occlusive nature of the ELANA anastomosis technique is a major advantage in flow replacement bypass surgery where large proximal arteries with higher flows need to be replaced or reconstructed. The construction of a deep intracranial anastomosis using the ELANA technique needs less vessel exposure than when using a conventional occlusive technique. This extra advantage facilitates the construction of anastomoses even on the ICA, MCA, ACA, P1, P2, SCA or BA, using the trans-Sylvian route only, without major skull base surgery. Several different types of EC-IC and IC-IC flow replacement bypass are now safely applicable due to the non-occlusive character of this technique.Future improvements of the technique are focused on sutureless applications, graft improvements and Flow Model Simulation. It is clear that not only conventional bypass techniques, but also, and even especially, the ELANA bypass technique, are of great value in the treatment of giant aneurysms.

Environmental challenges are part of daily life for any individual. In fact, stress appears to be increasingly present in our modern, and demanding, industrialized society. Virtually every aspect of our body and brain can be influenced by stress and although its effects are partly mediated by powerful corticosteroid hormones that target the nervous system, relatively little is known about when, and how, the effects of stress shift from being beneficial and protective to becoming deleterious. Decades of stress research have provided valuable insights into whether stress can directly induce dysfunction and/or pathological alterations, which elements of stress exposure are responsible, and which structural substrates are involved. Using a broad definition of pathology, we here review the &quot;neuropathology of stress&quot; and focus on structural consequences of stress exposure for different regions of the rodent, primate and human brain. We discuss cytoarchitectural, neuropathological and structural plasticity measures as well as more recent neuroimaging techniques that allow direct monitoring of the spatiotemporal effects of stress and the role of different CNS structures in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in human brain. We focus on the hypothalamus, hippocampus, amygdala, nucleus accumbens, prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortex, key brain regions that not only modulate emotions and cognition but also the response to stress itself, and discuss disorders like depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, Cushing syndrome and dementia.

The sequencing of the human genome has fueled the last decade of work to functionally characterize genome content. An important subset of genes encodes membrane proteins, which are the targets of many drugs. They reside in lipid bilayers, restricting their endogenous activity to a relatively specialized biochemical environment. Without a reference phenotype, the application of systematic screens to profile candidate membrane proteins is not immediately possible. Bioinformatics has begun to show its effectiveness in focusing the functional characterization of orphan proteins of a particular functional class, such as channels or receptors. Here we discuss integration of experimental and bioinformatics approaches for characterizing the orphan membrane proteome. By analyzing the human genome, a landscape reference for the human transmembrane genome is provided.





Two studies explored the effects of forget instructions on autobiographical memory at immediate test and following delays of either 12-13 months, or 3-4 months. Using the Autobiographical Think/No-Think procedure (cf., Noreen &amp; MacLeod, 2013), 24 never-depressed participants (Study 1) first generated 12 positive and 12 negative autobiographical memories and associated cues. Participants were then asked to recall the memory associated with some of the cues (i.e., 'think' condition), or to avoid saying or thinking about the memory associated with other cues (i.e., 'no-think' condition). Participants were then asked to recall the memories associated with all the cues at immediate test and following a delay of 12-13 months. Participants were found to be successful at forgetting both positive and negative autobiographical memories following 'no-think' instructions at immediate test but this forgetting effect did not persist following a 12-13 month delay. This pattern of remembering and forgetting was replicated in a second study (using 27 never-depressed participants) following a 3-4 month delay. Participants who had been less successful at forgetting 'no-think' memories at immediate test, were more likely to show rebound effects for those memories following a delay compared to memories which received neither 'think' nor 'no-think' instructions. Individual differences in inhibitory control and the efficacy of potential therapeutic interventions of 'no-think' instructions are considered.

Behavioral and electrophysiological correlates of attentional bias to cannabis-related cues were investigated in a marijuana dependent group and a non-user group employing a drug Stroop task in which cannabis-related, negative and neutral images were presented. Behaviorally, cannabis users were less accurate during drug-containing blocks than non-users. Electrophysiologically, in chronic marijuana-users, an early positive ERP enhancement over left frontal scalp (EAP, 200-350ms) was present in response to drug-containing blocks relative to negative blocks. This effect was absent in the non-user group. Furthermore, drug-containing blocks gave rise to enhanced voltage of a posterior P300 (300-400ms), and a posterior sustained slow wave (LPP, 400-700ms) relative to negative blocks. However, such effects were similar between cannabis users and non-users. Brain source imaging in cannabis users revealed a generator for the EAP effect to drug stimuli in left ventromedial prefrontal cortex/medial orbitofrontal cortex, a region active in fMRI studies of drug cue-reactivity and a target of the core dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway involved in the processing of substances of abuse. This study identifies the timing and brain localization of an ERP correlate of early attentional capture to drug-related pictures in chronic marijuana users. The EAP to drug cues may identify a new electrophysiological marker with clinical implications for predicting abstinence versus relapse or to evaluate treatment interventions.
Cocaine addiction is a chronic, relapsing disease characterized by an inability to regulate drug-seeking behavior. Here we investigated the role of mGluR5 in the ventral and dorsal striatum in regulating cocaine-seeking following both abstinence and extinction. Animals underwent 2 weeks of cocaine self-administration followed by 3 weeks of home-cage abstinence. Animals were then reintroduced to the operant chamber for a context-induced relapse test, followed by 7-10 days of extinction training. Once responding was extinguished, cue-primed reinstatement test was conducted. Both drug-seeking tests were conducted in the presence of either mGluR5 negative allosteric modulator, MTEP or vehicle infused into either the nucleus accumbens (NA) core or dorsolateral striatum (dSTR). We found that MTEP infused in the NA core attenuated both context-induced relapse following abstinence and cue-primed reinstatement following extinction training. Blocking dSTR mGluR5 had no effect on context- or cue-induced cocaine-seeking. However, the intra-dSTR MTEP infusion on the context-induced relapse test day attenuated extinction learning for 4 days after the infusion. Furthermore, mGluR5 surface expression was reduced and LTD was absent in dSTR slices of animals undergoing 3 weeks of abstinence from cocaine but not sucrose self-administration. LTD was restored by bath application of VU-29, a positive allosteric modulator of mGluR5. Bath application of MTEP prevented the induction of LTD in dSTR slices from sucrose animals. Taken together, this data indicates that dSTR mGluR5 plays an essential role in extinction learning but not cocaine relapse, while NA core mGluR5 modulates drug-seeking following both extinction and abstinence from cocaine self-administration.
Abstinence from cocaine self-administration (SA) is associated with neuroadaptations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) that are implicated in cocaine-induced neuronal plasticity and relapse to drug-seeking. Alterations in cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) signaling are prominent in medium spiny neurons in the NAc after repeated cocaine exposure but it is unknown whether similar changes occur in the PFC. Because cocaine SA induces disturbances in glutamatergic transmission in the PFC-NAc pathway, we examined whether dysregulation of PKA-mediated molecular targets in PFC-NAc neurons occurs during abstinence and, if so, whether it contributes to cocaine-seeking. We measured the phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (Ser133) and GluA1 (Ser845) in the dorsomedial (dm) PFC and the presynaptic marker, synapsin I (Ser9, Ser62/67, Ser603), in the NAc after 7 days of abstinence from cocaine SA with or without cue-induced cocaine-seeking. We also evaluated whether infusion of the PKA inhibitor, 8-bromo-Rp-cyclic adenosine 3', 5'-monophosphorothioate (Rp-cAMPs), into the dmPFC after abstinence would affect cue-induced cocaine-seeking and PKA-regulated phosphoprotein levels. Seven days of forced abstinence increased the phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein and GluA1 in the dmPFC and synapsin I (Ser9) in the NAc. Induction of these phosphoproteins was reversed by a cue-induced relapse test of cocaine-seeking. Bilateral intra-dmPFC Rp-cAMPs rescued abstinence-elevated PKA-mediated phosphoprotein levels in the dmPFC and NAc and suppressed cue-induced relapse. Thus, by inhibiting abstinence-induced PKA molecular targets, relapse reverses abstinence-induced neuroadaptations in the dmPFC that are responsible, in part, for the expression of cue-induced cocaine-seeking.
Modafinil may be useful for treating stimulant abuse, but the mechanisms by which it acts to do so are unknown. Indeed, a primary effect of modafinil is to inhibit dopamine transport, which typically promotes rather than inhibits motivated behavior. Therefore, we examined the role of nucleus accumbens extracellular glutamate and the group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR2/3) in modafinil effects. One group of rats was trained to self-administer cocaine for 10 days and extinguished, then given priming injections of cocaine to elicit reinstatement. Modafinil (300mg/kg, intraperitoneal) inhibited reinstated cocaine seeking (but did not alter extinction responding by itself), and this effect was prevented by pre-treatment with bilateral microinjections of the mGluR2/3 antagonist LY-341495 (LY) into nucleus accumbens core. No reversal of modafinil effects was seen after unilateral accumbens core LY, or bilateral LY in the rostral pole of accumbens. Next, we sought to explore effects of modafinil on extracellular glutamate levels in accumbens after chronic cocaine. Separate rats were administered non-contingent cocaine, and after 3 weeks of withdrawal underwent accumbens microdialysis. Modafinil increased extracellular accumbens glutamate in chronic cocaine, but not chronic saline-pre-treated animals. This increase was prevented by reverse dialysis of cystine-glutamate exchange or voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonists. Voltage-dependent sodium channel blockade partly attenuated the increase in glutamate, but mGluR1 blockade did not. We conclude that modafinil increases extracellular glutamate in nucleus accumbens from glial and neuronal sources in cocaine-exposed rats, which may be important for its mGluR2/3-mediated antirelapse properties.
Excessive ethanol (EtOH) use leads to impaired memory and cognition. Using a rat model of binge-like intoxication, we tested whether elevated corticosterone (Cort) levels contribute to the neurotoxic consequences of EtOH exposure. Rats were adrenalectomized (Adx) and implanted with cholesterol pellets, or cholesterol pellets containing Cort in order to achieve basal, medium, or high blood concentrations of Cort. Intragastric EtOH or an isocaloric control solution was given three times daily for 4 days to achieve blood alcohol levels ranging between 200 and 350 mg/dl. Mean 24-hour plasma levels of Cort were 110 and 40 ng/ml in intact EtOH-treated and intact control animals, respectively. Basal Cort replacement concentrations in EtOH-treated Adx animals did not exacerbate alcohol-induced neurodegeneration in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) or the entorhinal cortex (EC) as observed by amino-cupric silver staining. In contrast, Cort replacement pellets resulting in plasma Cort levels twofold higher (medium) than normal, or greater than twofold higher (high) in Adx-Cort-EtOH animals increased neurodegeneration. In separate experiments, pharmacological blockade of the Type II glucocorticoid (GC) receptor was initiated with mifepristone (RU38486; 0, 5, 15 mg/kg/day, i.p.). At the higher dose, mifepristone decreased the number of degenerating hippocampal DG cells in binge-EtOH-treated intact animals, whereas, only a trend for reduction was observed in 15 mg/kg/day mifepristone-treated animals in the EC, as determined by fluoro-jade B staining. These results suggest that elevated circulating Cort in part mediates EtOH-induced neurotoxicity in the brain through activation of Type II GC receptors.

Cryptococcus neoformans is a fungal pathogen that causes almost half a million deaths each year. It is believed that most humans are infected with C. neoformans, possibly in a form that survives through latency in the lung and can reactivate to cause disease if the host becomes immunosuppressed. C. neoformans has a remarkably sophisticated intracellular survival capacities yet it is a free-living fungus with no requirement for mammalian virulence whatsoever. In this review, we discuss the tools that C. neoformans possesses to achieve survival, latency and virulence within its host. Some of these tools are mechanisms to withstand starvation and others aim to protect against microbicidal molecules produced by the immune system. Furthermore, we discuss how these tools were acquired through evolutionary pressures and perhaps accidental stochastic events, all of which combined to produce an organism with an unusual and unique intracellular pathogenic strategy.




Diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPGs) are a fairly common pediatric brain tumor, and children with these tumors have a dismal prognosis. They generally are diagnosed within the first decade of life, and due to their location within the pons, these tumors are not surgically resectable. The median survival for children with DIPGs is less than 1 year, in spite of decades of clinical trial development of unique approaches to radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Novel therapies are under investigation for these deadly tumors. As clinicians and researchers make a concerted effort to obtain tumor tissue, the molecular signals of these tumors are being investigated in an attempt to uncover targetable therapies for DIPGs. In addition, direct application of chemotherapies into the tumor (convection-enhanced delivery) is being investigated as a novel delivery system for treatment of DIPGs. Overall, DIPGs require creative thinking and a disciplined approach for development of a therapy that can improve the prognosis for these unfortunate children.
Glioma is the most common primary malignant brain tumor and arises throughout the central nervous system. Recent focus on stem-like glioma cells has implicated neural stem cells (NSCs), a minor precursor population restricted to germinal zones, as a potential source of gliomas. In this review, we focus on the relationship between oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), the largest population of cycling glial progenitors in the postnatal brain, and gliomagenesis. OPCs can give rise to gliomas, with signaling pathways associated with NSCs also playing key roles during OPC lineage development. Gliomas can also undergo a switch from progenitor- to stem-like phenotype after therapy, consistent with an OPC-origin even for stem-like gliomas. Future in-depth studies of OPC biology may shed light on the etiology of OPC-derived gliomas and reveal new therapeutic avenues.
Both innate and adaptive immune cells are involved in the mechanisms of endothelial cell proliferation, migration and activation, via production and release of a large spectrum of pro-angiogenic mediators, thus creating the specific microenvironment that favors increased rate of tissue vascularization. In this article, we focus on the immune cell component of the angiogenic process occurring during multiple myeloma progression. We also provide information on some anti-angiogenic properties of immune cells that may be applied for a potential pharmacological use as anti-angiogenic agents in the disease treatment.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a small, non-pathogenic dependovirus that has shown great potential for safe and long-term expression of a genetic payload in the retina. AAV has been used to treat a growing number of animal models of inherited retinal degeneration, though drawbacks-including a limited carrying capacity, slow onset of expression, and a limited ability to transduce some retinal cell types from the vitreous-restrict the utility of AAV for treating some forms of inherited eye disease. Next generation AAV vectors are being created to address these needs, through rational design efforts such as the creation of self-complementary AAV vectors for faster onset of expression and specific mutations of surface-exposed residues to increase transduction of viral particles. Furthermore, directed evolution has been used to create, through an iterative process of selection, novel variants of AAV with newly acquired, advantageous characteristics. These novel AAV variants have been shown to improve the therapeutic potential of AAV vectors, and further improvements may be achieved through rational design, directed evolution, or a combination of these approaches, leading to broader applicability of AAV and improved treatments for inherited retinal degeneration.
Increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is an attribute of malignant cells and is linked to the development of many of the characteristics considered &quot;hallmarks of cancer (Hanahan and Weinberg, Cell 144(5), 2011, 646-674).&quot; Among these are sustained proliferative signaling, induction of new vascular growth, promotion of invasion, and metastatic potential. Maintaining the balance between the beneficial biological functions of ROS and the dysregulation seen in human disease such as cancer, presents a daunting conundrum in the future of oncology research. ROS involvement is pervasive throughout the process of tumorigenesis and subsequent cancer growth, yet the response to both pro- and antioxidant based therapy is varied. We will review the ROS species in the pathogenesis of primary ocular malignancy with consideration of potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a complex disease stemming from both genetic abnormalities and environmental insults, is the most common form of visual impairment in elderly individuals of the Western world. Many potential etiologies are linked to AMD, but smoking is the leading environmental insult associated with this maculopathy. Smoke-induced damage is mediated in part through direct oxidation, depletion of antioxidants, complement activation, and vascular transmutations. Clinically, these mechanisms manifest themselves as keystones of atrophic AMD: retinal pigment epithelium degeneration, formation of extracellular deposits such as drusen, and thickening of Bruch's membrane. Furthermore, smoking induces angiogenesis and choroidal neovascularization, advancing the course of the disease to late-stage AMD. Further exploration of the biological processes affected by cigarette smoke exposure will provide greater insight into the pathogenesis of AMD.
Mutations in Aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein like-1 (AIPL1) are linked to Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA), a severe blinding disease that occurs in early childhood. The severity of disease is due to requirement for AIPL1 in both rod and cone photoreceptor cell survival and function. Aipl1 is expressed very early during retinal development in both rods and cones. In adult primates, robust expression of Aipl1 is found in rods but not in cones. Mouse models revealed the importance of AIPL1 in stability and function of heteromeric phosphodiesterase 6 (PDE6), an enzyme needed for visual response. However, the need for AIPL1 in cone cell survival and function is not clearly understood. In this chapter, using results obtained from multiple lines of animal models, we discuss the role for AIPL1 in photoreceptors.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are integral membrane proteins of high pharmaceutical interest. Until relatively recently, their structures have been particularly elusive, and rhodopsin has been for many years the only member of the superfamily with experimentally elucidated structures. However, a number of recent technical and scientific advancements made the determination of GPCR structures more feasible, thus leading to the solution of the structures of several receptors. Besides providing direct structural information, these experimental GPCR structures also provide templates for the construction of GPCR models. In depth studies have been performed to probe the accuracy of these models, in particular with respect to the interactions with their ligands, and to assess their applicability the rational discovery of GPCR modulators. Given the current state of the art and the pace of the field, the future of GPCR structural studies is likely to be characterized by a landscape populated by an increasingly higher number of experimental and theoretical structures.
We follow an adult Drosophila melanogaster female through the major reproductive decisions she makes during her lifetime, including habitat selection, precopulatory mate choice, postcopulatory physiological changes, polyandry, and egg-laying site selection. In the process, we review the molecular and neuronal mechanisms allowing females to integrate signals from both environmental and social sources to produce those behavioral outputs. We pay attention to how an understanding of D. melanogaster female reproductive behaviors contributes to a wider understanding of evolutionary processes such as pre- and postcopulatory sexual selection as well as sexual conflict. Within each section, we attempt to connect the theories that pertain to the evolution of female reproductive behaviors with the molecular and neurobiological data that support these theories. We draw attention to the fact that the evolutionary and mechanistic basis of female reproductive behaviors, even in a species as extensively studied as D. melanogaster, remains poorly understood.
This study aimed to evaluate in vitro whole blood (WB) clot lysis method for the assessment of fibrinolytic activity. Standardized unresected (uncut) retracted WB clot was incubated in pool platelet poor plasma (PPP) for varying incubation times and in streptokinase (SK) at different concentrations. The fibrinolytic activity was assessed by D-dimer (DD), confocal microscopy, and clot weight. DD was measured photometrically by immunoturbidimetric method. There was a significant difference in mean DD levels according to SK concentrations (P = 0.007). The mean DD  SD according to the SK concentrations of 5, 30, 50, and 100IU/mL was: 0.69  0.12, 0.78  0.14, 1.04  0.14 and 2.40  1.09  g/mL. There were no significant changes of clot weight at different SK concentrations. Gradual loss and increased branching of fibrin in both PPP and SK were observed. Quantitation of DD and morphology of fibrin loss as observed by the imaging features are in keeping with fibrinolytic activity. Combination of DD levels and confocal microscopic features was successfully applied to evaluate the in vitro WB clot lysis method described here.
Purpose: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most frequent arrhythmia that follows coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). Patients developing postoperative AF (POAF) have significantly higher mortality rates. The consistent prophylactic effectiveness of statins and vitamin C are well-accepted; however, no evaluation on combined therapy has been performed. We aimed at assessing the efficacy of combination therapy with statin and vitamin C in comparison with statin alone in the prevention of post CABG-AF. Methods: In a randomized double blind clinical trial, 120 candidates of CABG were recruited in Tabriz Madani Educational Center in a 15-month period of time. Patients were randomized into two groups of 60 receiving oral atorvastatin (40mg) plus oral vitamin C (2g/d operation day and 1g/d for five consequent days) for intervention group and oral atorvastatin (40mg) for control group. Occurrence of post CABG AF was compared between the two groups. Results: There were 60 patients, 43 males and 17 females with a mean age of 61.011.5 (29-78) years, in the intervention group and sixty patients, 39 males and 21 females with a mean age of 60.511.3 (39-81) years, in the control group. The post CABG AF occurred in 6 cases (10%) in the interventional group and 15 patients (25%) in the controls (P=0.03, odds ratio=0.33, 95% confidence interval 0.12-0.93). Conclusion: Based on our findings, combination prophylaxis against post CABG AF with oral atorvastatin plus vitamin C is significantly more effective than single oral atorvastatin.
Although scientists have been investigating the neurobiology of psychomotor stimulant reward for many decades, there is still no FDA-approved treatment for cocaine or methamphetamine abuse. Research in our laboratory has focused on the relationship between stress, the subsequent activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and psychomotor stimulant reinforcement for almost 30 years. This research has led to the development of a combination of low doses of the cortisol synthesis inhibitor, metyrapone, and the benzodiazepine, oxazepam, as a potential pharmacological treatment for cocaine and other substance use disorders. In fact, we have conducted a pilot clinical trial that demonstrated that this combination can reduce cocaine craving and cocaine use. Our initial hypothesis underlying this effect was that the combination of metyrapone and oxazepam reduced cocaine seeking and taking by decreasing activity within the HPA axis. Even so, doses of the metyrapone and oxazepam combination that consistently reduced cocaine taking and seeking did not reliably alter plasma corticosterone (or cortisol in the pilot clinical trial). Furthermore, subsequent research has demonstrated that this drug combination is effective in adrenalectomized rats, suggesting that these effects must be mediated above the level of the adrenal gland. Our evolving hypothesis is that the combination of metyrapone and oxazepam produces its effects by increasing the levels of neuroactive steroids, most notably tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, in the medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala. Additional research will be necessary to confirm this hypothesis and may lead to the development of improved and specific pharmacotherapies for the treatment of psychomotor stimulant use.

Engagement with care for those living with HIV is aimed at establishing a strong relationship between patients and their health care provider and is often associated with greater adherence to therapy and treatment (Flickinger, Saha, Moore, and Beach, 2013). Substance use behaviors are linked with lower rates of engagement with care and medication adherence (Horvath, Carrico, Simoni, Boyer, Amico, and Petroli, 2013). This study is a secondary data analysis using a cross-sectional design from a larger randomized controlled trial (n = 775) that investigated the efficacy of a self-care symptom management manual for participants living with HIV. Participants were recruited from countries of Africa and the US. This study provides evidence that substance use is linked with lower self-reported engagement with care and adherence to therapy. Data on substance use and engagement are presented. Clinical implications of the study address the importance of utilizing health care system and policy factors to improve engagement with care.



The recent study by Willams and colleagues utilized a novel robotic virtual reality measurement system to measure sensory-motor processing deficits in children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). This system and the precise quantitation of distinct constituent behavioral processes may hold considerable utility and importance for the study of FASD-related motor deficits, their neural bases, and translational research efforts using homologous behavioral approaches in animal and human studies..

There are few studies on the incidence of dementia in representative minority populations in the United States; however, no population-based study has been conducted on Japanese American women. We identified 3045 individuals aged 65+ with at least 1 parent of Japanese descent living in King County, WA in the period 1992 to 1994, of whom 1836 were dementia-free and were examined every 2 years (1994 to 2001) to identify incident cases of all dementias, Alzheimer disease (AD), vascular dementia (VaD), and other dementias. Cox regression was used to examine associations with age, sex, years of education, and apolipoprotein (APOE)-4. Among 173 incident cases of dementia, the overall rate was 14.4/1000/y, with rates being slightly higher among women (15.9/1000) than men (12.5/1000). Rates roughly doubled every 5 years for dementia and AD; the age trend for VaD and other dementias was less consistent. Sex was not significantly related to incidence of dementia or its subtypes in adjusted models. There was a trend for an inverse association with increasing years of education. APOE-4 was a strong risk factor for all dementias [hazard ratio (HR)=2.89; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.88-4.46], AD (HR=3.27; 95% CI, 2.03-5.28), and VaD (HR=3.33; 95% CI, 1.34-8.27). This study is the first to report population-based incidence rates for both Japanese American men and women.
The understanding of how cerebrovascular disease (CVD) contributes to dementia is hampered by a lack of agreed and validated pathologic methods to accord weight to the contribution of different aspects of CVD to dementia. A previous study from the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Ageing (OPTIMA) validated a scheme for assessing the contribution of subcortical small vessel disease (SVD) toward dementia in the elderly by showing a significant inverse relationship between the severity of SVD and cognition in subjects without any other dementia pathology using this method. In the present paper, the method has been used to assess severity of SVD in 161 cases of neuropathologically confirmed Alzheimer disease. The results showed there was no relationship between the SVD score and cognitive scores acquired in the last 2 years of life. SVD scores were significantly related to age (P&lt;0.0017) and were slightly but significantly higher in females than males (P&lt;0.049). SVD scores were not related to blood pressure at entry to OPTIMA and were significantly lower when compared with the cohort of OPTIMA cases with only CVD (mean 5.06  1.85 vs. 5.9  2.67; P&lt;0.0065). We conclude that when Alzheimer disease pathology is present in elderly subjects, it overwhelms the modest contribution that SVD makes to cognitive impairment.
Brain atrophy is a key imaging hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD). In this study, we carried out an integrative evaluation of AD-related atrophy. Twelve patients with AD and 13 healthy controls were enrolled. We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of total brain tissue volumes with SIENAX. Localized gray matter atrophy was identified with optimized voxel-wise morphometry (FSL-VBM), and subcortical atrophy was evaluated by active shape model implemented in FMRIB's Integrated Registration Segmentation Toolkit. SIENAX analysis demonstrated total brain atrophy in AD patients; voxel-based morphometry analysis showed atrophy in the bilateral mediotemporal regions and in the posterior brain regions. In addition, regarding the diminished volumes of thalami and hippocampi in AD patients, subsequent vertex analysis of the segmented structures indicated shrinkage of the bilateral anterior thalami and the left medial hippocampus. Interestingly, the volume of the thalami and hippocampi were highly correlated with the volume of the thalami and amygdalae on both sides in AD patients, but not in healthy controls. This complex structural information proved useful in the detailed interpretation of AD-related neurodegenerative process, as the multilevel approach showed both global and local atrophy on cortical and subcortical levels. Most importantly, our results raise the possibility that subcortical structure atrophy is not independent in AD patients.
Alzheimer's disease is the public health crisis of the 21st century. There is a clear need for a widely available, inexpensive and reliable method to diagnosis Alzheimer's disease in the earliest stages, track disease progression, and accelerate clinical development of new therapeutics. One avenue ofresearch being explored is blood based biomarkers. In April 2012, the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation convened top scientists from around the worldtodiscuss the state of blood based biomarker development. This manuscript summarizes the meeting and the resultant discussion, including potential next steps to move this area of research forward.

Treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is significantly hampered by the lack of easily accessible biomarkers that can detect disease presence and predict disease risk reliably. Fluid biomarkers of AD currently provide indications of disease stage; however, they are not robust predictors of disease progression or treatment response, and most are measured in cerebrospinal fluid, which limits their applicability. With these aspects in mind, the aim of this article is to underscore the concerted efforts of the Blood-Based Biomarker Interest Group, an international working group of experts in the field. The points addressed include: (1) the major challenges in the development of blood-based biomarkers of AD, including patient heterogeneity, inclusion of the &quot;right&quot; control population, and the blood-brain barrier; (2) the need for a clear definition of the purpose of the individual markers (e.g., prognostic, diagnostic, or monitoring therapeutic efficacy); (3) a critical evaluation of the ongoing biomarker approaches; and (4) highlighting the need for standardization of preanalytical variables and analytical methodologies used by the field.








Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most common gynecological malignancy in women and is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Estrogenic stimulation significantly increases endometrial cell proliferation, and both insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia are associated with the development of EC in women. It has long been known that insulin resistance occurs in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and/or obesity, but one important unanswered question is whether the insulin resistance associated with PCOS and obesity is part of the etiology of the initiation and development of EC. Therefore, research efforts to understand the common and specific underlying endometrial responses to insulin resistance in women with PCOS and obesity could provide further therapeutic options for early endometrial carcinoma.

A variety of flavonoids are suggested to be useful for the treatment of brain-related disorders, including dementia and depression. An investigation on the characteristics of the extracted compounds of Iris tenuifolia Pall. (IT) is of much interest, as this plant has been used as a traditional medicine. In the present study, we examined the effect of total flavonoids obtained from IT on cultured cortical neurons under oxidative-stress and found that pretreatment with IT flavonoids significantly inhibited H 2 O 2-induced cell death in cortical neurons. Such a survival-promoting effect by IT flavonoids was partially blocked by inhibitors for extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt (PI3K/Akt) cascades, both of which are known as survival-promoting signaling molecules. Furthermore, the phosphorylation of Src homology-2 (SH2) domain-containing phosphatase2 (Shp2) was induced by IT flavonoids, and the protective effect of IT flavonoids was abolished by NSC87877, an inhibitor for Shp2, suggesting the involvement of Shp2-mediated intracellular signaling in flavonoid-dependent neuroprotection.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic demyelinating immune-mediated disease of the central nervous system. Infections have been implicated in different aspects of the disease such as induction of relapses and possibly, progression. Bladder dysfunction and associated urinary tract colonization (UTC) and infections (UTIs) are common in MS patients. UTIs can exacerbate neurological symptoms in MS, whilst high-dose steroid treatment of acute neurological worsening with concurrent untreated UTC may lead to unmasking of infection. This clinical audit was designed to investigate whether our institution is adhering to the National Institute for Health Care and Excellence (NICE) Clinical Guideline 148 for the management of patients with lower urinary tract symptoms due to neurogenic bladder dysfunction. We identified 21 patients with abnormal urine dipsticks out of 118 patients presenting at Nottingham University Hospitals for clinical review or for assessment of a relapse. Patients were asked about catheter status and the presence of any lower urinary tract symptoms. In all cases of relapse assessment, current practice at our institution had been to delay treatment with methylprednisolone (MP), pending the results of microbiology culture and sensitivity testing. If the patient was confirmed to have an infection, treatment with MP was delayed further awaiting completion of a course of antibiotics. We suggest that corticosteroid treatment need not be delayed but rather administered simultaneously with antibiotic treatment for the UTI, provided that the patient has no systemic symptoms of infection (e.g. fever, rigors, raised CRP). Patients must be educated and cautioned to contact their doctor in the event that systemic symptoms do develop during treatment.




Stroke is one of the most disabling complications of sickle cell anemia (SCA). The molecular mechanisms leading to stroke in SCA or by which packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusion prevents strokes are not understood. We investigated the effects of PRBC transfusion on serum biomarkers in children with SCA who were at high-risk for stroke. Serum samples from 80 subjects were analyzed, including baseline, study exit time point and 1 year after study exit. Forty of the 80 samples were from subjects randomized to standard care and 40 from transfusion arm. Samples were assayed for levels of BDNF, sVCAM-1, sICAM-1, MPO, Cathepsin-D, PDGF-AA, PDGF-AB/BB, RANTES (CCL5), tPAI-1, and NCAM-1 using antibody immobilized bead assay. Significantly lower mean serum levels of sVCAM-1 (2.2  10(6)  0.8  10(6) pg/mL vs. 3.1  10(6)  0.9  10(6) pg/mL, P &lt; 0.0001), Cathepsin-D (0.5  10(6)  0.1  10(6) pg/mL vs. 0.7  10(6)  0.2  10(6) pg/mL, P &lt; 0.0001), PDGF-AA (10556  4033 pg/mL vs. 14173  4631 pg/mL, P = 0.0008), RANTES (0.1  10(6)  0.07  10(6) pg/mL vs. 0.2  10(6)  0.06  10(6) pg/mL, P &lt; 0.006), and NCAM-1 (0.7  10(6)  0.2  10(6) pg/mL vs. 0.8  10(6)  0.1  10(6) pg/mL, P &lt; 0.0006) were observed among participants who received PRBC transfusion, compared to those who received standard care. Twenty or more PRBC transfusion over 4 years was associated with lower serum levels of sVCAM-1 (P &lt; 0.001), PDGF-AA (P = 0.025), and RANTES (P = 0.048). Low baseline level of BDNF (P = 0.025), sVCAM-1 (P = 0.025), PDGF-AA (P = 0.01), t-PAI-1 (P = 0.025) and sICAM-1 (P = 0.022) was associated with higher probability of stroke free survival. Beyond improving hemoglobin levels, our results suggest that the protective effects of PRBC transfusion on reducing stroke in SCD may result from reduced thrombogenesis and vascular remodeling.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) affects an estimated 300,000 individuals in the United States. No cure exists and although there is a lack of consensus on management, strategies to modify disease course are available. These strategies involve initiating disease-modifying therapies that have been found to slow disease progression and prevent disability symptoms, thereby improving function for MS patients. The overall goal of early disease management is to intervene prior to irreversible neuronal destruction in order to delay disability progression and improve quality of life. Maintaining a lower level of disability for a longer period of time postpones and ultimately attempts to prevent reaching a level of immobility and irreversible disability. However, due to the complex nature of disease and its unique, individual patient course, no patient can be treated alike and no patient responds to therapy similarly. Therefore, MS research is continuous in its evolution of therapeutic development, focusing on neuroprotective effects and agents with distinctive mechanisms of action allowing for unique safety and efficacy profiles. Investigations include novel oral agents and monoclonal antibodies. Many of the approved agents also are continually being investigated in order to evaluate comparative data, the most appropriate means of implementing subsequent therapy upon failure, responsiveness to therapeutic agent when switched, and long-term safety and efficacy. This multimedia webcast educational activity will cover the current state of MS science, current therapies in MS, emerging treatments in clinical trials for MS as well as differences between physicians in diagnosis and management of MS and their evolving practices.
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) genetic variation has been associated with the diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) but no study to date has examined the effect MTHFR variation has on MDD prognosis. We sought to examine the prospective effects of two common MTHFR variants (C677T and A1298C) as well as seven haplotype-tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (htSNPs) on MDD prognosis over a 5-year (60-month) period. Participants were 147 depressed primary care attendees enrolled in the Diagnosis, Management and Outcomes of Depression in Primary Care (diamond) prospective cohort study. Prognosis of MDD was measured using three methods: (1) DSM-IV criteria, (2) Primary Care Evaluation of Mental Disorders Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), and (3) Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CESD). DSM-IV criteria for MDD was assessed using the Composite International Diagnostic Interview at baseline and 24, 36, 48, and 60 months post-baseline; whereas, PHQ-9 and CESD measures were employed at baseline and 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months post-baseline. Repeated measures analysis of variance showed that PHQ-9 symptom severity trajectories differed by C677T genotype (F=3.34, df=2,144, P=0.038), with 677CC genotype showing the most severe symptom severity course over the 60 months of observation. Neither the A1298C polymorphism nor any of the htSNPs were associated with MDD prognosis regardless of measure used. Our results suggest that the MTHFR C677T polymorphism may serve as a marker for MDD prognosis pending independent replication.
The gene that encodes zinc finger protein 804A (ZNF804A) became a candidate risk gene for schizophrenia (SZ) after surpassing genome-wide significance thresholds in replicated genome-wide association scans and meta-analyses. Much remains unknown about this reported gene expression regulator; however, preliminary work has yielded insights into functional and biological effects of ZNF804A by targeting its regulatory activities in vitro and by characterizing allele-specific interactions with its risk-conferring single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). There is now strong epidemiologic evidence for a role of ZNF804A polymorphisms in both SZ and bipolar disorder (BD); however, functional links between implicated variants and susceptible biological states have not been solidified. Here we briefly review the genetic evidence implicating ZNF804A polymorphisms as genetic risk factors for both SZ and BD, and discuss the potential functional consequences of these variants on the regulation of ZNF804A and its downstream targets. Empirical work and predictive bioinformatic analyses of the alternate alleles of the two most strongly implicated ZNF804A polymorphisms suggest they might alter the affinity of the gene sequence for DNA- and/or RNA-binding proteins, which might in turn alter expression levels of the gene or particular ZNF804A isoforms. Future work should focus on clarifying the critical periods and cofactors regulating these genetic influences on ZNF804A expression, as well as the downstream biological consequences of an imbalance in the expression of ZNF804A and its various mRNA isoforms.
A better understanding of the factors associated with psychotic symptoms could aid early identification and treatment of psychotic disorders. Previous studies have typically utilized cross-sectional study designs and have focused on individuals with psychotic disorders. Thus, examination of promising correlates of psychotic symptoms using longitudinal designs among more broadly defined populations is warranted. Two such correlates are neuregulin-1 (NRG1) genotypic variation and depression symptom severity. Both NRG1 and depression symptom severity have cross-sectional evidence for an association with psychosis but their affect on longitudinal patterns of psychotic symptoms and their potential interaction effects are less clear. Using repeated measures analysis of variance and covariance we modeled the main and interaction effects of NRG1 genotypic variation and depressive symptom severity on longitudinal psychotic symptom patterns in 301 primary care attendees assessed annually over 4 years. One-fifth (19.9%) of the participants reported one or more psychotic symptoms over the 4-year assessment period. We observed a curvilinear (i.e., cubic) association between depression symptom severity at baseline and longitudinal patterns of psychotic symptoms but did not observe a main effect for NRG1 genotypic variation on psychotic symptom patterns. However, NRG1 rs6994992 genotype moderated the curvilinear association between depression symptom severity and psychotic symptom patterns. Specifically, depression symptom severity had less of an effect on longitudinal psychotic symptoms among carriers of the rs6994992 TT genotype compared to CC and CT carriers. Our findings suggest a curvilinear association between depression symptom severity and longitudinal patterns of psychotic symptoms that is moderated by NRG1 genotype.
In a collaboration involving 11 groups with research interests in cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), we used a two-stage process to develop and in turn validate a new consensus protocol and scoring scheme for the assessment of CAA and associated vasculopathic abnormalities in post-mortem brain tissue. Stage one used an iterative Delphi-style survey to develop the consensus protocol. The resultant scoring scheme was tested on a series of digital images and paraffin sections that were circulated blind to a number of scorers. The scoring scheme and choice of staining methods were refined by open-forum discussion. The agreed protocol scored parenchymal and meningeal CAA on a 0-3 scale, capillary CAA as present/absent and vasculopathy on 0-2 scale, in the 4 cortical lobes that were scored separately. A further assessment involving three centres was then undertaken. Neuropathologists in three centres (Bristol, Oxford and Sheffield) independently scored sections from 75 cases (25 from each centre) and high inter-rater reliability was demonstrated. Stage two used the results of the three-centre assessment to validate the protocol by investigating previously described associations between APOE genotype (previously determined), and both CAA and vasculopathy. Association of capillary CAA with or without arteriolar CAA with APOE 4 was confirmed. However APOE 2 was also found to be a strong risk factor for the development of CAA, not only in AD but also in elderly non-demented controls. Further validation of this protocol and scoring scheme is encouraged, to aid its wider adoption to facilitate collaborative and replication studies of CAA.
Cognitive reserve (CR) refers to the hypothesized capacity of an adult brain to cope with brain damage in order to minimize symptomatology. The present review is focused on the contribution of brain PET in the understanding of the influence of CR on the disassociation between cognition and degree of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Theories for the explanation CR-related mechanism as well as PET imaging evidence for the existence of CR are described. Moreover functional imaging studies investigating specific networks for CR both in healthy subjects and AD patients are discussed. Finally implications for amyloid PET imaging are presented.

In this work we describe the experimental protocol set up to obtain very good results in speech performance and in time course, with a subject presenting profound bilateral sensorineural hearing loss with low-frequencies preservation. We used a bimodal stimulation with a like-hybrid modality. Auditory functions have been analyzed by standard tonal and speech audiometry tests, and verbal perception test. The fitting protocol permitted the subject to reach a perception at 65 dB of 100% in a very short time. The subject showed a sufficient recovery of the language spectral information and a good integration of verbal information with high consonantal recognition is present. This case report shows the importance to realize a correct cochlear implant fitting and that, in the case of bimodal stimulation, it is very important to obtain the mutual adjustment of the two hearing aids. Moreover, this study enhances the importance of realizing a preservative surgery to make the most of cochlear implants capacity.
The endocrine system participates in regulating macrophage maturation, although little is known about the modulating role of the thyroid hormones. Invitro results demonstrate a negative role of one such hormone, triiodothyronine (T3), in triggering the differentiation of bone marrow-derived monocytes into unpolarized macrophages. T3-induced macrophages displayed a classically activated (M1) signature. A T3-induced M1-priming effect was also observed on polarized macrophages because T3 reverses alternatively activated (M2) activation, whereas it enhances that of M1 cells. Invivo, circulating T3 increased the content of the resident macrophages in the peritoneal cavity, whereas it reduced the content of the recruited monocyte-derived cells. Of interest, T3 significantly protected mice against endotoxemia induced by lipopolysaccharide i.p. injection; in these damaged animals, decreased T3 levels increased the recruited (potentially damaging) cells, whereas restoring T3 levels decreased recruited and increased resident (potentially beneficial) cells. These data suggest that the anti-inflammatory effect of T3 is coupled to the modulation of peritoneal macrophage content, in a context not fully explained by the M1/M2 framework. Thyroid hormone receptor expression analysis and the use of different thyroid hormone receptor antagonists suggest thyroid hormone receptor 1 as the major player mediating T3 effects on macrophages. The novel homeostatic link between thyroid hormones and the pathophysiological role of macrophages opens new perspectives on the interactions between the endocrine and immune systems.
Human-specific HIV-1 and hepatitis co-infections significantly affect patient management and call for new therapeutic options. Small xenotransplantation models with human hepatocytes and hematolymphoid tissue should facilitate antiviral/antiretroviral drug trials. However, experience with mouse strains tested for dual reconstitution is limited, with technical difficulties such as risky manipulations with newborns and high mortality rates due to metabolic abnormalities. The best animal strains for hepatocyte transplantation are not optimal for human hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) engraftment, and vice versa. We evaluated a new strain of highly immunodeficient nonobese diabetic/Shi-scid (severe combined immunodeficiency)/IL-2Rc(null) (NOG) mice that carry two copies of the mouse albumin promoter-driven urokinase-type plasminogen activator transgene for dual reconstitution with human liver and immune cells. Three approaches for dual reconstitution were evaluated: i) freshly isolated fetal hepatoblasts were injected intrasplenically, followed by transplantation of cryopreserved HSCs obtained from the same tissue samples 1 month later after treosulfan conditioning; ii) treosulfan conditioning is followed by intrasplenic simultaneous transplantation of fetal hepatoblasts and HSCs; and iii) transplantation of mature hepatocytes is followed by mismatched HSCs. The long-term dual reconstitution was achieved on urokinase-type plasminogen activator-NOG mice with mature hepatocytes (not fetal hepatoblasts) and HSCs. Even major histocompatibility complex mismatched transplantation was sustained without any evidence of hepatocyte rejection by the human immune system.
Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP1) is an endocytic receptor for numerous proteins that are both structurally and functionally diverse. In some cell types, LRP1-mediated endocytosis is coupled to activation of cell signaling. LRP1 also regulates the composition of the plasma membrane and may, thereby, indirectly regulate the activity of other cell-signaling receptors. Given the scope of LRP1 ligands and its multifunctional nature, it is not surprising that numerous biological activities have been attributed to this receptor. LRP1 gene deletion is embryonic-lethal in mice. However, elegant studies using Cre-LoxP recombination have helped elucidate the function of LRP1 in mature normal and pathological tissues. One major theme that has emerged is the role of LRP1 as a regulator of inflammation. In this review, we will describe evidence for LRP1 as a regulator of inflammation in atherosclerosis, cancer, and injury to the nervous system.
There is a range of statistics in Sweden regarding people with functional limitations available from different authorities presenting diverging information. Although healthcare and social welfare legislations aim for equal access and treatment, surveys about unmet needs show that opportunities for rehabilitation are unequal among diagnoses and around the country and insufficient in the long-term. There is also a law granting certain supports and services to those people who are considered to be in need of having someone to speak for them. Disability-related services are tax financed with a symbolic fee. Rehabilitation is performed by not only physical and rehabilitation medicine specialists. Rehabilitation research is mainly within healthcare science but also in social science. Disability services need better coordination, and an agency has recently been founded with this responsibility. More politicians should engage in disability-related issues, and more people with disability should get into politics.


Endometriosis is a complex and challenging disease that involves aberrant adhesion, growth, and progression of endometrial tissues outside of the uterine cavity, and there is evidence to suggest that estrogen plays a key role in its development and progression. Numerous in vivo clinical studies have described the ectopic expression and regulation of estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) in the different types of endometriosis compared to normal or eutopic endometrium. However, we have noticed that conflicting and contradictory results have been presented in terms of ER subtype (ER and ER) and PR isoform (PRA and PRB) expression. Both ER and PR are transcription factors and ER/PR-mediated responses depend on the coordinated, opposing, and compensatory functions of ER subtypes and PR isoforms. Moreover, analysis of the uterine phenotypes of ER/ER and PRA/PRB knockout mice indicates that different ER subtypes and PR isoforms mediate distinct responses to steroid hormones and play different roles in uterine function. In this review, we outline studies that have elucidated the molecules and signaling pathways that are linked to ER and/or PR signaling pathways in the development and progression of endometriosis.
Herbowski (2013) suggested recently the Egyptian Imhotep from the 3rd dynasty in Egypt to be the discoverer of cerebrospinal fluid. There are, however, no sources within the first 2000 years after Imhotep suggesting him to be in any way connected with the field of medicine. Over the course of three millennia Imhotep evolves into the sage who besides architecture also masters the arts of medicine, magic, astronomy, and astrology, at the same time as him being transformed from man to demi-God, and finally to a God. The identification of Imhotep as a doctor has thus little to do with facts and it is unlikely that he had anything to do with the Edwin-Smith papyrus from a much later period where CSF is first mentioned.
In recent years, there has been a growing interest in white matter anatomy of the human brain. With advances in brain imaging techniques, the significance of white matter integrity for brain function has been demonstrated in various neurological and psychiatric disorders. As the demand for interpretation of clinical and imaging data on white matter increases, the needs for white matter anatomy education are changing. Because cross-sectional images and formalin-fixed brain specimens are often insufficient in visualizing the complexity of three-dimensional (3D) white matter anatomy, obtaining a comprehensible conception of fiber tract morphology can be difficult. Fiber dissection is a technique that allows isolation of whole fiber pathways, revealing 3D structural and functional relationships of white matter in the human brain. In this study, we describe the use of fiber dissection in combination with plastination to obtain durable and easy to use 3D white matter specimens that do not require special care or conditions. The specimens can be used as a tool in teaching white matter anatomy and structural connectivity. We included four human brains and show a series of white matter specimens of both cerebrum and cerebellum focusing on the cerebellar nuclei and associated white matter tracts, as these are especially difficult to visualize in two-dimensional specimens and demonstrate preservation of detailed human anatomy. Finally, we describe how the integration of white matter specimens with radiological information of new brain imaging techniques such as diffusion tensor imaging tractography can be used in teaching modern neuroanatomy with emphasis on structural connectivity.
The purpose of this study was to examine the application of anatomy and neuroanatomy knowledge to current practice of speech-language pathology (SLP), based on the perceptions of practicing SLPs, and to elicit information on participants' experiences of learning these subjects in their primary SLP degree with a view to inform potential curriculum development. A qualitative approach was taken to the collection of data. Eight practicing SLPs from four settings were interviewed. The critical incident technique, together with further probing, was used to elicit information. Interviews were transcribed and later thematically analyzed. This study found that knowledge of anatomy and neuroanatomy was perceived to be important by SLPs across all settings, to varying degrees, with a greater application in acute hospital settings. Negative experiences in studying this material were reported across all settings regardless of country of study. Participants discussed ways to increase students' motivation to learn this challenging material. Relevance of material demanded by students may be enhanced if active learning methods were used to teach anatomy/neuroanatomy, including case-based learning and with vertical and horizontal integration of material to provide a cohesive, spiral curriculum.
We studied human melody perception and production in a songbird in the light of current concepts from the cognitive neuroscience of music. Bullfinches are the species best known for learning melodies from human teachers. The study is based on the historical data of 15 bullfinches, raised by 3 different human tutors and studied later by Jrgen Nicolai (JN) in the period 1967-1975. These hand-raised bullfinches learned human folk melodies (sequences of 20-50 notes) accurately. The tutoring was interactive and variable, starting before fledging and JN continued it later throughout the birds' lives. All 15 bullfinches learned to sing alternately melody modules with JN (alternate singing). We focus on the aspects of note sequencing and timing studying song variability when singing the learned melody alone and the accuracy of listening-singing interactions during alternatively singing with JN by analyzing song recordings of 5 different males. The following results were obtained as follows: (1) Sequencing: The note sequence variability when singing alone suggests that the bullfinches retrieve the note sequence from the memory as different sets of note groups (=modules), as chunks (sensu Miller in Psychol Rev 63:81-87, 1956). (2) Auditory-motor interactions, the coupling of listening and singing the human melody: Alternate singing provides insights into the bird's brain melody processing from listening to the actually whistled part of the human melody by JN to the bird's own accurately singing the consecutive parts. We document how variable and correctly bullfinches and JN alternated in their singing the note sequences. Alternate singing demonstrates that melody-singing bullfinches did not only follow attentively the just whistled note contribution of the human by auditory feedback, but also could synchronously anticipate singing the consecutive part of the learned melody. These data suggest that both listening and singing may depend on a single learned human melody representation (=coupling between perception and production).
The impact of an acute circadian disruption on learning and memory in male and female rats was examined. Circadian disruption was elicited using a brief series of photoperiod shifts. Previous research using male rats showed that acute circadian disruption during acquisition of a spatial navigation task impaired long-term retention and that chronic circadian disruption impaired acquisition of the same task. However, the long-term effects of acute circadian disruption following circadian re-entrainment and whether sex differences in response to circadian disruption exist are still unknown. For the present study, rats were trained on the standard, spatial version of the Morris water task (MWT) and a visual discrimination task developed for the eight-arm radial maze. After reaching asymptotic performance, behavioural training was terminated and the experimental group experienced a series of photoperiod shifts followed by circadian re-entrainment. Following circadian re-entrainment, the subjects were given retention tests on the MWT and visual discrimination task. Following retention testing, an extra-dimensional shift using the eight-arm radial maze was also performed. An acute episode of circadian disruption elicited via photoperiod shifts negatively impacted retention of spatial memory in male and female rats. Retention of the visual discrimination task and the ability to detect extra-dimensional shifts were not impaired. The observed impairments on the MWT indicate that hippocampal representations are susceptible to a small number of photoperiod shifts even if the association is acquired prior to rhythm manipulation and retention is assessed following rhythm stabilization. Effects were limited to a hippocampus-dependent task, indicating that impairments are specific, not global.
Visual search asymmetry has been used as an important tool for exploring cognitive mechanisms in humans. Here, we examined visual search asymmetry in two macaques toward two types of stimulus: the orientation of line stimuli and face-like stimuli. In the experiment, the monkeys were required to detect an odd target among numerous uniform distracters. The monkeys detected a tilted-lines target among horizontal- or vertical-lined distracters significantly faster than a horizontal- or vertical-lined target among tilted-lined distracters, regardless of the display size. However, unlike the situation in which inverted-face stimuli were introduced as distracters, this effect was diminished if upright-face stimuli were used as distracters. Additionally, monkeys detected an upright-face target among inverted-face distracters significantly faster than an inverted-face target among upright-face distracters, regardless of the display size. These results demonstrate that macaques can search a target efficiently to detect both tilted lines among non-tilted lines and upright faces among inverted faces. This clarifies that there are several types of visual search asymmetry in macaques.


Central nervous system involvement by tuberculosis to produce basal meningitis, hydrocephalus, arteritis and infarcts is well-known, the brunt of the pathology being borne by the arterial vasculature to produce neurological sequelae. However, tuberculous thrombophlebitis causing venous infarction is exceedingly rare. We present imaging and pathological features of two autopsy proven cases of tuberculous thrombophlebitis with venous infarcts involving superficial venous system in one and deep venous system in the other. This is the first study presenting radiopathologic correlation of this rare complication. Tuberculous thrombophlebitis should be suspected if basal exudates and multiple white matter T2 hyperintensities are seen on neuroimaging and the imaging protocol should include both magnetic resonance arteriogram and venogram.
Vomiting and hiccups can be due to peripheral or central causes. Neurological diseases causing vomiting and hiccups are due to lesions of medulla involving area postrema and nucleus tractus solitarius. Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is one such disease which involves these structures. However refractory vomiting and hiccups as the presenting symptom of NMO is unusual. Here we report a patient with NMO in whom refractory vomiting and hiccups were the sole manifestation of the first attack. Diagnosis can be missed at this stage leading to delay in treatment and further complications. This case demonstrates the importance of considering NMO in any patient presenting with refractory vomiting and hiccups and with local and metabolic causes ruled out and linear medullary lesion on magnetic resonance imaging may indicate the diagnosis even when the classical clinical criteria are not met. Anti NMO antibody testing should be done and if positive appropriate treatment should be initiated to prevent further neurological damage.
Abetalipoproteinemia is an uncommon cause of ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Most of the neurological and ocular manifestations occur secondary to deficiency syndromes that is consequent to fat malabsorption from the small intestine. In this report, we have described the phenotype of a young adult female who manifested with recurrent diarrheal illness in her first decade, followed by anemia, RP, and neurological involvement with progressive deafness, cerebellar and sensory ataxia, and subclinical neuropathy in her second decade of life. While RP and sensory ataxia due to vitamin E deficiency are well-recognized features of abetalipoproteinemia, deafness is rarely described. In addition, we have highlighted the abnormal posterior column signal changes in the cervical cord in this patient. Early recognition avoids unnecessary investigations and has a potential to retard the disease progression by replacing some of the deficient vitamins.
Joseph Babinski (1857-1932) was born on November 17, 1857. He worked in a clinical arena dominated by Charcot and a focus on hysteria. His primary aim was in trying to find the reliable clinical signs to distinguish organic from non-organic disease of the nervous system. He was considered as masterly diagnostician, relying considerably less on neuropathological reports. Babinski's first attention to the reflex of the toes occurred during a chance observation of the contrasting responses between two female patients, one a hysteric and the other a hemiplegic. He first published description of his famous &quot;sign&quot; in 1896. Babinski's love for research works could be gauzed from his desire to publish and by the age of 27 years, he had to this credit, 12 important articles, mainly concerned with histological and neurological themes and one of his articles on the basic description of muscle spindles was considered to be a significant one. He was awarded the doctorate degree in 1885. Babinski introduced the concept of pithiatism, meaning &quot;curable by suggestion.&quot; He anticipated the emergence of neurosurgery in France and only 6 days prior to his death he is on record to have said that his most vital contribution to the cause of neurosciences was not the sign he described, but that he could goad Clovis Vincent and Martel to take up neurosurgery as a specialty.
Since the first demonstrations that mindfulness-based therapies could have a positive influence on chronic pain patients, numerous studies have been conducted with healthy individuals in an attempt to understand meditative analgesia. This review focuses explicitly on experimental pain studies of meditation and attempts to draw preliminary conclusions based on the work completed in this new field over the past 6 years. Dividing meditative practices into the broad categories of focused attention (FA) and open monitoring (OM) techniques allowed several patterns to emerge. The majority of evidence for FA practices suggests they are not particularly effective in reducing pain. OM, on the other hand, seems to influence both sensory and affective pain ratings depending on the tradition or on whether the practitioners were meditating. The neural pattern underlying pain modulation during OM suggests meditators actively focus on the noxious stimulation while inhibiting other mental processes, consistent with descriptions of mindfulness. A preliminary model is presented for explaining the influence of mindfulness practice on pain. Finally, the potential analgesic effect of the currently unexplored technique of compassion meditation is discussed.
This article offers an overview of meditation research: its history, recent developments, and future directions. As the number and scope of studies grow, the field has converged with cognitive and affective neuroscience, and spawned many clinical applications. Recent work has shed light on the mechanisms and effects of diverse practices, and is entering a new phase where consensus and coherent paradigms are within reach. This article suggests an unusual path for future advancement: complementing conventional research with rigorous dialogue with the contemplative traditions that train expert meditators and best know the techniques. It explores the Nalanda tradition developed in India and preserved in Tibet, because its cumulative approach to contemplative methods produced a comprehensive framework that may help interpret data and guide research, and because its naturalistic theories and empirical methods may help bridge the gulf between science and other contemplative traditions. Examining recent findings and models in light of this framework, the article introduces the Indic map of the central nervous system and presents three testable predictions based on it. Finally, it reviews two studies that suggest that the multimodal Nalanda approach to contemplative learning is as well received as more familiar approaches, while showing promise of being more effective.

With a rapidly aging society it becomes increasingly important to counter normal age-related decline in cognitive functioning. Growing evidence suggests that cognitive training programs may have the potential to counteract this decline. On the basis of a growing body of research that shows that meditation has positive effects on cognition in younger and middle-aged adults, meditation may be able to offset normal age-related cognitive decline or even enhance cognitive function in older adults. In this paper, we review studies investigating the effects of meditation on age-related cognitive decline. We searched the Web of Science (1900 to present), PsycINFO (1597 to present), MEDLINE (1950 to present), and CABI (1910 to present) to identify original studies investigating the effects of meditation on cognition and cognitive decline in the context of aging. Twelve studies were included in the review, six of which were randomized controlled trials. Studies involved a wide variety of meditation techniques and reported preliminary positive effects on attention, memory, executive function, processing speed, and general cognition. However, most studies had a high risk of bias and small sample sizes. Reported dropout rates were low and compliance rates high. We conclude that meditation interventions for older adults are feasible, and preliminary evidence suggests that meditation can offset age-related cognitive decline.
A central issue when designing multidimensional biological and psychosocial interventions for children who are exposed to multiple developmental risks is identification of the age period(s) in which such interventions will have the strongest and longest lasting effects (sensitive periods). In this paper, we review nutritional, neuroscientific, and psychological evidence on this issue. Nutritional evidence is used to identify nutrient-sensitive periods of age-linked dimensions of brain development, with specific reference to iron deficiency. Neuroscience evidence is used to assess the importance of timing of exposures to environmental stressors for maintaining neural, neuroendocrine, and immune systems integrity. Psychological evidence illustrates the sensitivity of cognitive and social-emotional development to contextual risk and protective influences encountered at different ages. Evidence reviewed documents that the early years of life are a sensitive period when biological or psychosocial interventions or exposure to risk or protective contextual influences can produce unique long-term influences upon human brain, neuroendocrine, and cognitive or psychosocial development. However, the evidence does not identify the early years as the sole sensitive time period within which to have a significant influence upon development. Choice of age(s) to initiate interventions should be based on what outcomes are targeted and what interventions are used.



Rapidly emerging evidence continues to describe an intimate and causal relationship between sleep and emotional brain function. These findings are mirrored by long-standing clinical observations demonstrating that nearly all mood and anxiety disorders co-occur with one or more sleep abnormalities. This review aims to (a) provide a synthesis of recent findings describing the emotional brain and behavioral benefits triggered by sleep, and conversely, the detrimental impairments following a lack of sleep; (b) outline a proposed framework in which sleep, and specifically rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep, supports a process of affective brain homeostasis, optimally preparing the organism for next-day social and emotional functioning; and (c) describe how this hypothesized framework can explain the prevalent relationships between sleep and psychiatric disorders, with a particular focus on posttraumatic stress disorder and major depression.
Epidemiological studies have shown that the association between cannabis and psychosis is robust and consistent across different samples, with compelling evidence for a dose-response relationship. Because longitudinal work indicates that cannabis use precedes psychotic symptoms, it seems reasonable to assume a causal relationship. However, more work is needed to address the possibility of gene-environment correlation (for example, genetic risk for psychosis causing onset of cannabis use). Moreover, knowledge about underlying biological mechanisms linking cannabis use and psychosis is still relatively limited. In order to understand how cannabis use may lead to an increased risk for psychosis, in the present article we (a) review the epidemiological, neurobiological, and genetic evidence linking cannabinoids and psychosis, (b) assess the quality of the evidence, and finally (c) try to integrate the most robust findings into a neurodevelopmental model of cannabis-induced psychosis and identify the gaps in knowledge that are in need of further investigation.
Despite decades of intense research, therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are still limited to symptomatic treatments that possess only short-term efficacy. Recently, several large-scale Phase III trials targeting amyloid- production or clearance have failed to show efficacy, leading to a reexamination of the amyloid hypothesis as well as highlighting the need to explore alternatives in both clinical testing strategies and drug discovery targets. In this review, we discuss therapeutics currently being tested in clinical trials and up-and-coming interventions that have shown promise in animal models, devoting attention to the mechanisms that may underlie their ability to influence disease progression and placing particular emphasis on tau therapeutics.
The presence of druggable, topographically distinct allosteric sites on a wide range of receptor families has offered new paradigms for small molecules to modulate receptor function. Moreover, ligands that target allosteric sites offer significant advantages over the corresponding orthosteric ligands in terms of selectivity, including subtype selectivity within receptor families, and can also impart improved physicochemical properties. However, allosteric ligands are not a panacea. Many chemical issues (e.g., flat structure-activity relationships) and pharmacological issues (e.g., ligand-biased signaling) that are allosteric centric have emerged. Notably, the fact that allosteric sites are less evolutionarily conserved leads to improved selectivity; however, this can also lead to species differences that can hinder safety assessment. Many allosteric ligands possess molecular switches, wherein a small structural change (chemical or metabolic) can modulate the mode of pharmacology or receptor subtype selectivity. As the field has matured, as described here, key principles and strategies have emerged for the design of ligands/drugs for allosteric sites.
The largest innovations within pharmaceutical development come through new compounds that have unique and novel modes of action. These innovations commonly involve expanding the protein space targeted by pharmaceutical agents. At present, information about drugs and drug targets is available online via public databases such as DrugBank and the Therapeutic Targets Database. However, this information is biased, understandably so, toward established drugs and drug-target interactions. To gain a better overview of the drug-targeted portion of the human proteome and the directions of current drug development, we developed a data set of clinical trial drug-target interactions based on CenterWatch's Drugs in Clinical Trials Database, one of the largest databases of its kind. Our curation identified 475 potentially novel clinical trial drug targets. This review aims to identify trends in drug development based on the potentially novel targets currently being explored in clinical trials.
The ability to induce and study neuronal plasticity in single dendritic spines has greatly advanced our understanding of the signaling mechanisms that mediate long-term potentiation. It is now clear that in addition to compartmentalization by the individual spine, subcompartmentalization of biochemical signals occurs at specialized microdomains within the spine. The spatiotemporal coordination of these complex cascades allows for the concomitant remodeling of the postsynaptic density and actin spinoskeleton and for the regulation of membrane traffic to express functional and structural plasticity. Here, we highlight recent findings in the signaling cascades at spine microdomains as well as the challenges and approaches to studying plasticity at the spine level.
Insight occurs when a person suddenly reinterprets a stimulus, situation, or event to produce a nonobvious, nondominant interpretation. This can take the form of a solution to a problem (an &quot;aha moment&quot;), comprehension of a joke or metaphor, or recognition of an ambiguous percept. Insight research began a century ago, but neuroimaging and electrophysiological techniques have been applied to its study only during the past decade. Recent work has revealed insight-related coarse semantic coding in the right hemisphere and internally focused attention preceding and during problem solving. Individual differences in the tendency to solve problems insightfully rather than in a deliberate, analytic fashion are associated with different patterns of resting-state brain activity. Recent studies have begun to apply direct brain stimulation to facilitate insight. In sum, the cognitive neuroscience of insight is an exciting new area of research with connections to fundamental neurocognitive processes.
This article provides a review of how cultural contexts shape and are shaped by psychological and neurobiological processes. We propose a framework that aims to culturally contextualize behavioral, genetic, neural, and physiological processes. Empirical evidence is presented to offer concrete examples of how neurobiological processes underlie social behaviors, and how these components are interconnected in larger cultural contexts. These findings provide some understanding of how the meanings shared by cultural experiences trigger a neurobiological, psychological, and behavioral chain of events, and how these events may be coordinated and maintained within a person. The review concludes with a reflection on the current state of cultural neuroscience and questions for the field to address.
Adolescence is a period of formative biological and social transition. Social cognitive processes involved in navigating increasingly complex and intimate relationships continue to develop throughout adolescence. Here, we describe the functional and structural changes occurring in the brain during this period of life and how they relate to navigating the social environment. Areas of the social brain undergo both structural changes and functional reorganization during the second decade of life, possibly reflecting a sensitive period for adapting to one's social environment. The changes in social environment that occur during adolescence might interact with increasing executive functions and heightened social sensitivity to influence a number of adolescent behaviors. We discuss the importance of considering the social environment and social rewards in research on adolescent cognition and behavior. Finally, we speculate about the potential implications of this research for society.
Individual differences in uncertainty have been associated with heightened anxiety, stress and approach-oriented coping. Intolerance of uncertainty (IU) is a trait characteristic that arises from negative beliefs about uncertainty and its consequences. Researchers have established the central role of IU in the development of problematic worry and maladaptive coping, highlighting the importance of this construct to anxiety disorders. However, there is a need to improve our understanding of the phenomenology of IU. The goal of this paper was to present hypotheses regarding the similarities and differences between IU and three related constructs--intolerance of ambiguity, uncertainty orientation, and need for cognitive closure--and to call for future empirical studies to substantiate these hypotheses. To assist with achieving this goal, we conducted a systematic review of the literature, which also served to identify current gaps in knowledge. This paper differentiates these constructs by outlining each definition and general approaches to assessment, reviewing the existing empirical relations, and proposing theoretical similarities and distinctions. Findings may assist researchers in selecting the appropriate construct to address their research questions. Future research directions for the application of these constructs, particularly within the field of clinical and health psychology, are discussed.
Alexander disease (AxD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with prominent white matter degeneration and the presence of Rosenthal fibers containing aggregates of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and small stress proteins HSP27 and B-crystallin, and widespread reactive gliosis. AxD is caused by mutations in GFAP, the main astrocyte intermediate filament protein. We previously showed that intermediate filament protein synemin is upregulated in reactive astrocytes after neurotrauma. Here, we examined immunohistochemically the presence of synemin in reactive astrocytes and Rosenthal fibers in two patients with AxD. There was an abundance of GFAP-positive Rosenthal fibers and widespread reactive gliosis in the white matter and subpial regions. Many of the GFAP-positive reactive astrocytes were positive for synemin, and synemin was also present in Rosenthal fibers. We show that synemin is expressed in reactive astrocytes in AxD, and is also present in Rosenthal fibers. The potential role of synemin in AxD pathogenesis remains to be investigated.

Typical plant aspartic protease zymogens comprise a characteristic and plant-specific insert (PSI). PSI domains can interact with membranes, and a role as a defensive weapon against pathogens has been proposed. However, the potential of PSIs as antimicrobial agents has not been fully investigated and explored yet due to problems in producing sufficient amounts of these domains in bacteria. Here, we report the development of an expression platform for the production of the PSI domain of cirsin in the generally regarded as safe (GRAS) yeast Kluyveromyces lactis. We successfully generated K. lactis transformants expressing and secreting significant amounts of correctly processed and glycosylated PSI, as well as its nonglycosylated mutant. A purification protocol with protein yields of 4.0 mg/liter was established for both wild-type and nonglycosylated PSIs, which represents the highest reported yield for a nontagged PSI domain. Subsequent bioactivity assays targeting phytopathogenic fungi indicated that the PSI of cirsin is produced in a biologically active form in K. lactis and provided clear evidence for its antifungal activity. This yeast expression system thereby emerges as a promising production platform for further exploring the biotechnological potential of these plant saposin-like proteins.
The Orthopedic Multidimensional Prognostic Index (Ortho-MPI) was performed and validated in order to ameliorate the decision-making process as regards the elderly with hip or neck femur fractures. A retrospective study was performed. 95 patients 65 years old and over with a diagnosis of hip or femur fracture were enrolled. A standardized comprehensive orthopedic geriatric assessment was performed. It included information on: depressive symptoms, functional and instrumental activities of daily living, cognitive and nutritional status, laboratory tests, risk of pressure sore, comorbidities and comorbidity. The Ortho-MPI was calculated. After six months their initial assessment, patients were recalled in order to know if they live too or not. The survival condition was associated to the prognostic capacity calculated by the Ortho-MPI. Results showed that higher Ortho-MPI Index value was associated with higher six months-later mortality. In an unvaried analysis model the Ortho-MPI index was associated with death event of the elderly patients enrolled (OR=1.05; 95% CI, 1.01-1.10; z=2.27; p=0.023). This association was also validated by considering different ages between participants (OR=1.05; 95% CI, 1.004-1.11; z=2.13; p=0.033). Furthermore, each specific index considered in the total Ortho-MPI was associated with the death event of the elderly patients. In conclusion it was shown that the Ortho-MPI Index could be used to predict outcome in the elderly with hip or femur fracture.
In the 1920s, experiments with apparatus-supported lie detection and registration of expression were conducted at the Criminological Institute of the University of Graz in order to establish a sound methodological basis for testimony research. For this purpose, the criminologist Ernst Seelig used a method of lie detection developed by the psychologist Vittorio Benussi, which focuses on the analysis of breathing. Benussi had stated that the expiration after telling a lie was faster than after telling the truth, but Seelig could not verify this rule in forensic practice. Consequently, this method of lie detection was of no practical use for criminology. Seelig also carried out experiments with the method of registration of expression developed by the psychiatrist Otto Lowenstein. He registered the examinee's thoracic and abdominal breathing and the movements of the extremities with the help of a kymograph. By interpretation of the curves recorded on soot blackened paper, conclusions concerning the mental elements of an offence as well as the existence of certain dispositions and of amnesia should have been made possible. Seelig was convinced of the efficiency of this method. These experiments can be regarded as early attempts at finding not only simple facts but also answers to quasi-metaphysical questions concerning the &quot;true nature&quot; of man with the help of methods based on natural science and modern technology. Thus they are precursors of present-day neuroscience and neuro-imaging.

This study adopts a psychological autopsy method to compare (1) unemployed suicides, (2) other suicides who were either employed or not in the labor force, and (3) psychiatric outpatients without any prior suicidal behavior. A total of 245 consecutive suicides from Province of Parma (Italy) with recorded employment status were included in the analysis. The control group included 41 psychiatric outpatients aged 18 to 64 years, who had not engaged in any previous suicidal act, and who were unemployed. The unemployed suicides had a risk 17 times higher to have had financial problems in the last 12 months (95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.0/149.5; p&lt;0.01) than other suicides. Unemployed suicides (compared to living unemployed controls) were 10 times more likely to have had poor social support (95% CI: 1.7/56.1; p&lt;0.01), 16 times more likely to have had any stressful life events in the past 12 months (95% CI: 2.5/103.9; p&lt;0.01), and 22 times more likely to have a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder (95% CI: 2.4/203.2; p&lt;0.01). New suicide prevention strategies for those who are facing job loss need to focus on social support and personality disorders, as well as hopelessness and despair.



Medulloblastoma is common in children as a tumor of midline posterior fossa, which arises from vermis and appears as a homogenously enhancing hyperdense mass on computed tomography scan and is associated with the clinical picture of posterior fossa syndrome. This unique clinic-radiological pattern in considered &quot;typical&quot; medulloblastoma, but medulloblastomas does not follow the typical clinic-radiological pattern in a significant number of children and adult cases. We review here the previous reports of atypical or uncommon features of medulloblastoma and add our very rare atypical cases of medulloblastomas to this list. Medulloblastoma should be considered in all midline posterior fossa tumors, hemisphere and cerebellopontine angle despite having clinical and radiological features suggestive of other tumors. Definitive diagnosis requires histologic confirmation in all cases.


Minor Physical Anomalies (MPAs) are subtle abnormalities of the head, face, and limbs, without significant cosmetic or functional impact to the individual. They are assumed to represent external markers of developmental deviations during foetal life. MPAs have been suggested to indicate severity in mental illness and constitute external markers for atypical brain development. Higher frequencies of MPAs can be found in children with autism. The aims of the present study were to examine the prevalence and patterns of MPAs in adults with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and to investigate whether MPAs are associated with symptom severity and overall functioning. Fifty adults with ASD and intelligence within the normal range and 53 healthy controls were examined with the Waldrop scale, an instrument for assessing MPAs. Face and feet were photographed enabling blinded assessment. Significant differences between the ASD and the control group were found on the MPA total scores, and also in the craniofacial region scores. Moreover, the shape of the ears was associated with autistic traits, in the ASD group. High MPA total scores were associated with poorer functioning. The findings suggest a link between MPAs, autistic traits, and level of functioning. Assessment of MPAs may assist in the diagnostic procedure of psychiatric disorders.
Measuring progress of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) during intervention programs is a challenge faced by researchers and clinicians. Typically, standardized assessments of child development are used within research settings to measure the effects of early intervention programs. However, the use of standardized assessments is not without limitations, including lack of sensitivity of some assessments to measure small or slow progress, testing constraints that may affect the child's performance, and the lack of information provided by the assessments that can be used to guide treatment planning. The utility of a curriculum-based assessment is discussed in comparison to the use of standardized assessments to measure child functioning and progress throughout an early intervention program for toddlers with risk for ASD. Scores derived from the curriculum-based assessment were positively correlated with standardized assessments, captured progress masked by standardized assessments, and early scores were predictive of later outcomes. These results support the use of a curriculum-based assessment as an additional and appropriate method for measuring child progress in an early intervention program. Further benefits of the use of curriculum-based measures for use within community settings are discussed.
At a time when health is being recognized as more than just avoiding death, age and comorbidity are becoming increasingly important aspects of chronic disease. Systemic Lupus Erythematous (SLE) is probably one of the best paradigms of modern chronic disease, sitting at the crossroads of numerous somatic health problems, immune activation, depression, pain, and fatigue. One hundred forty-eight female participants were enrolled in the present study: 50 diagnosed with SLE, 45 with major depressive disorder (MDD), and 53 age-matched controls. Statistically significant lower scores in quality-of-life dimensions related to physical impairment were found in SLE. Patients with MDD presented significant levels of pain, reduced physical summary component (PSC), and general health scores different from healthy controls. Fatigue was reported in 90% of women with SLE and 77.8% of the MDD patients in contrast with 39.6% in the control group. Significant correlations were seen among fatigue severity, age, and educational level in SLE. From our own previous work and more recent work on the association of immune activation and depression, unexplained fatigue in SLE may signify an early sign of immune activation flare-up. The search for cytokine markers should perhaps be extended to fatigue in SLE.
Autophagy is a catabolic pathway typically induced by nutrient starvation to recycle amino acids, but can also function in removing damaged organelles. In addition, this pathway plays a key role in eukaryotic development. To date, not much is known about the role of autophagy in apicomplexan parasites and more specifically in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Comparative genomic analysis has uncovered some, but not all, orthologs of autophagy-related (ATG) genes in the malaria parasite genome. Here, using a genome-wide in silico analysis, we confirmed that ATG genes whose products are required for vesicle expansion and completion are present, while genes involved in induction of autophagy and cargo packaging are mostly absent. We subsequently focused on the molecular and cellular function of P. falciparum ATG8 (PfATG8), an autophagosome membrane marker and key component of the autophagy pathway, throughout the parasite asexual and sexual erythrocytic stages. In this context, we showed that PfATG8 has a distinct and atypical role in parasite development. PfATG8 localized in the apicoplast and in vesicles throughout the cytosol during parasite development. Immunofluorescence assays of PfATG8 in apicoplast-minus parasites suggest that PfATG8 is involved in apicoplast biogenesis. Furthermore, treatment of parasite cultures with bafilomycin A 1 and chloroquine, both lysosomotropic agents that inhibit autophagosome and lysosome fusion, resulted in dramatic morphological changes of the apicoplast, and parasite death. Furthermore, deep proteomic analysis of components associated with PfATG8 indicated that it may possibly be involved in ribophagy and piecemeal microautophagy of the nucleus. Collectively, our data revealed the importance and specificity of the autophagy pathway in the malaria parasite and offer potential novel therapeutic strategies.
SNCA/-synuclein and its rare mutations are considered as the culprit proteins in Parkinson disease (PD). Wild-type (WT) SNCA has been shown to impair macroautophagy in mammalian cells and in transgenic mice. In this study, we monitored the dynamic changes in autophagy process and confirmed that overexpression of both WT and SNCA(A53T) inhibits autophagy in PC12 cells in a time-dependent manner. Furthermore, we showed that SNCA binds to both cytosolic and nuclear high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), impairs the cytosolic translocation of HMGB1, blocks HMGB1-BECN1 binding, and strengthens BECN1-BCL2 binding. Deregulation of these molecular events by SNCA overexpression leads to autophagy inhibition. Overexpression of BECN1 restores autophagy and promotes the clearance of SNCA. siRNA knockdown of Hmgb1 inhibits basal autophagy and abolishes the inhibitory effect of SNCA on autophagy while overexpression of HMGB1 restores autophagy. Corynoxine B, a natural autophagy inducer, restores the deficient cytosolic translocation of HMGB1 and autophagy in cells overexpressing SNCA, which may be attributed to its ability to block SNCA-HMGB1 interaction. Based on these findings, we propose that SNCA-induced impairment of autophagy occurs, in part, through HMGB1, which may provide a potential therapeutic target for PD.
Platelets play a central role in inflammation through their direct interaction with other cell types, such as leucocytes and endothelial cells, and by the release of many factors, that is, lipids [such as thromboxane (TX)A2 ] and proteins (a wide number of angiogenic and growth factors) stored in -granules, and adenosine diphosphate (ADP), stored in dense granules. These platelet actions trigger autocrine and paracrine activation processes that lead to leucocyte recruitment into different tissues and phenotypic changes in stromal cells which contribute to the development of different disease states, such as atherosclerosis and atherothrombosis, intestinal inflammation and cancer. The signals induced by platelets may cause pro-inflammatory and malignant phenotypes in other cells through the persistent induction of aberrant expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and increased generation of prostanoids, mainly prostaglandin (PG)E2 . In addition to cardiovascular disease, enhanced platelet activation has been detected in inflammatory disease and intestinal tumourigenesis. Moreover, the results of clinical studies have shown that the antiplatelet drug aspirin reduces the incidence of vascular events and colorectal cancer. All these pieces of evidence support the notion that colorectal cancer and atherothrombosis may share a common mechanism of disease, that is, platelet activation in response to epithelial (in tumourigenesis) and endothelial (in tumourigenesis and atherothrombosis) injury. Extensive translational medicine research is necessary to obtain a definitive mechanistic demonstration of the platelet-mediated hypothesis of colon tumourigenesis. The results of these studies will be fundamental to support the clinical decision to recommend the use of low-dose aspirin, and possibly other antiplatelet agents, in primary prevention, that is, even for individuals at low cardiovascular risk.
Bizarre behaviors (stereotyped stretching, stereotyped rearing, backward movements and jumps) were conspicuously elicited in classical unconditioned tests with different levels of anxiogenic conditions. They were characterized for the first time as early-BPSD-like symptoms in 6 month-old male and female 3xTg-AD mice. The pattern of these behaviors differed from that exhibited by their age- and gender-matched NTg counterparts. Confrontation of an open and illuminated field was the best trigger of such behaviors as compared to mild neophobia in the corner test or the choice between two compartments in the dark-light box. Here we also report that increased freezing, delayed thigmotaxis and enhancement of emotional behaviors were early BPSD-like symptoms indicative of their response to low-stressful environments. Independently of the genotype, consistent gender effects pointed toward the relevance of female gender to study bizarre behaviors and risk assessment. The identification of items of behavior and its gender component were relevant to find out bidirectional and selective behavioral long-lasting effects of postnatal handling. This early life treatment reduced freezing and most of the bizarre behaviors whereas potentiated risk assessment and the horizontal locomotor activity. In contrast, vertical exploratory activity was not modified by the treatment. The results also talk in favor of the beneficence of early-life interventions on the behavioral outcome in adulthood in both healthy and disease conditions. As shown, the consideration of bizarre behaviors and risk assessment may become an additional tool for evaluating BPSD-like symptoms in relation to preventive and/or therapeutical strategies targeted at AD. It may also have a role in the evaluation of the potential risk factors for the disease.
A single central injection of angiotensin II (AngII) potently increases water intake; however, a growing body of research suggests that repeated, acute intracerebroventricular injections of AngII cause a reduction in the dipsogenic response to subsequent AngII. This AngII-induced behavioral desensitization is specific to the effects of angiotensin and mediated by the angiotensin type-1 (AT1) receptor. The neuroanatomical substrate for this phenomenon, however, remains unknown. The anteroventral third ventricle (AV3V) region is an important site for the behavioral and physiological actions of AngII. Therefore, we hypothesized that this region also mediates the effects of repeated central AngII administration. In support of this hypothesis, we found that repeated injections of AngII into the AV3V reduced water intake stimulated by a test injection of AngII given into this region. Moreover, repeated AngII injections in the AV3V reduced water intake after AngII was injected into the lateral ventricle. These studies also demonstrate that activation of the AT1 receptor within the AV3V is required for AngII-induced behavioral desensitization because direct injection of the AT1 receptor antagonist, losartan, into the AV3V blocked the desensitizing effect of repeated AngII injections into the lateral ventricle. These findings provide additional support for a role of the AV3V in the dipsogenic actions of AngII, and suggest that this region is critical for the desensitization that occurs after acute repeated central injections of AngII.
Verbal social interaction plays an important role both in the etiology and treatment of psychiatric disorders. However, the neural basis of social interaction has primarily been studied in the individual brain, neglecting the inter-individual perspective. Here, we show inter-individual neuronal coupling of brain activity during live verbal interaction, by investigating 11 pairs of good female friends who were instructed to speak about autobiographical life events during simultaneous fMRI acquisition. The analysis revealed that the time course of neural activity in areas associated with speech production was coupled with the time course of neural activity in the interlocutor's auditory cortex. This shows the feasibility of the new methodology, which may help elucidate basic reciprocal mechanisms of social interaction and the underpinnings of disordered communication. In particular, it may serve to study the process of psychotherapy on a neuronal level.
The increasing use of mobile phone technology over the last decade raises concerns about the impact of high frequency electromagnetic fields (EMF) on health. More recently, a link between EMF, iron overload in the brain and neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases has been suggested. Co-exposure to EMF and brain iron overload may have a greater impact on brain tissues and cognitive processes than each treatment by itself. To examine this hypothesis, Long-Evans rats submitted to 900 MHz exposure or combined 900 MHz EMF and iron overload treatments were tested in various spatial learning tasks (navigation task in the Morris water maze, working memory task in the radial-arm maze, and object exploration task involving spatial and non spatial processing). Biogenic monoamines and metabolites (dopamine, serotonin) and oxidative stress were measured. Rats exposed to EMF were impaired in the object exploration task but not in the navigation and working memory tasks. They also showed alterations of monoamine content in several brain areas but mainly in the hippocampus. Rats that received combined treatment did not show greater behavioral and neurochemical deficits than EMF-exposed rats. None of the two treatments produced global oxidative stress. These results show that there is an impact of EMF on the brain and cognitive processes but this impact is revealed only in a task exploiting spontaneous exploratory activity. In contrast, there are no synergistic effects between EMF and a high content of iron in the brain.
Over the past decade a neurodevelopmental animal model with high validity for schizophrenia has been developed based on the environmental risk factor known as maternal immune activation (MIA). The immunological basis of this model, together with extensive data from clinical and preclinical context, suggests the involvement of an aberrant neuro-immune system in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The goal of this study was to examine microglia activation in adult behaviourally phenotyped MIA offspring. MIA was induced in pregnant rats using viral mimetic Poly I:C at gestational day 15. Adult offspring were behaviourally phenotyped at postnatal days (PND) 56, 90 and 180 through the evaluation of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle and spontaneous locomotion. Finally, the presence of activated microglia in brain regions associated with schizophrenia was evaluated using post-mortem immunohistochemistry against OX-42 (CD11b) and ED-1 (CD68). Although a deficit in PPI could not be replicated despite the high number of animals tested, we found an overall decrease in basal startle response and spontaneous locomotion in offspring born to Poly I:C- compared to saline-treated dams, accompanied by increased microglial density with characteristics of non-reactive activation in the chronic stage of the model. These findings provide additional evidence for a role played by microglial activation in schizophrenia-related pathology in general and psychomotor slowing in particular, and warrant extensive research on the underlying mechanism in order to establish new drug targets for the treatment of schizophrenia patients with an inflammatory component.

Background. Anti-neuronal autoimmunity may cause cognitive impairment that meets the criteria for dementia. Objective. Our aim was to detect the incidence and clinical features of autoimmune encephalitis imitating clinical findings of primary dementia disorders and to delineate the validity of anti-neuronal antibody screening in dementia patients. Methods. Fifty consecutive patients fulfilling the clinical criteria for primary dementia, 130 control patients, and 50 healthy controls were included. Their sera were investigated for several ion channel and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies by a cell-based assay, radioimmunoassay, and ELISA, as required. Results. Sixteen patients satisfying dementia criteria had atypical findings or findings suggestive of autoimmune encephalitis. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antibody was detected in a patient with dementia, Parkinsonism, and REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) fulfilling the criteria for dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). One control patient with bipolar disease displayed low anti-GAD antibody levels. Conclusions. Our study showed for the first time the presence of parkinsonism and RBD in an anti-NMDAR encephalitis patient mimicking DLB. Although autoimmune encephalitis patients may occasionally present with cognitive decline, most dementia patients do not exhibit anti-neuronal antibodies, suggesting that routine analysis of these antibodies in dementia is not mandatory, even though they display atypical features.
Phobias are among the few intensely fearful experiences we regularly have in our everyday lives, yet the brain basis of phobic responses remains incompletely understood. Here we describe the case of a 71-year-old patient with a typical clinicoanatomical syndrome of semantic dementia led by selective (predominantly right-sided) temporal lobe atrophy, who showed striking amelioration of previously disabling claustrophobia following onset of her cognitive syndrome. We interpret our patient's newfound fearlessness as an interaction of damaged limbic and autonomic responsivity with loss of the cognitive meaning of previously threatening situations. This case has implications for our understanding of brain network disintegration in semantic dementia and the neurocognitive basis of phobias more generally.
Background. Event-related oscillations (ERO) may provide a useful tool for the identification of cognitive deficits in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study, we investigate peak-to-peak amplitude of auditory event-related delta oscillations of MCI subjects. Method. The study included twenty-two consecutive patients with MCI recruited in neurology clinic and 21 age- and education-matched normal elderly controls. A classical auditory oddball paradigm was used in the experiments. EEG was recorded from F3, Fz, F4, C3, Cz, C4, P3, Pz, P4, O1, Oz, and O2 locations. The maximum peak-to-peak amplitudes for each subject's averaged delta response (0.5-2.2Hz) were measured. Results. The amplitudes between groups differed significantly at the frontal and mid-centroparietal locations. ANOVA on delta responses revealed a significant effect for groups (F(1.41) = 4.84, P = 0.033), indicating a larger delta response for healthy controls than MCI subjects. Post hoc comparisons revealed that peak-to-peak delta response was significantly larger for healthy controls than for MCI over electrode sites F3, Fz, F4, Cz, C4, and Pz. Discussion. Event-related delta frequency band seems to be the most affected oscillatory response in cognitive impairment due to AD. Therefore, it deserves to be investigated as a candidate electrophysiological biomarker in further studies.
We report a case of a 47-year-old woman with 35-year history of multiple sclerosis, who showed alien hand signs, a rare behavioural disorder that involves unilateral goal-directed movements that are contrary to the individual's intention. Alien hand syndrome has been described in multiple sclerosis (MS) only occasionally and is generally suggestive of callosal disconnection. The patient presented also with bilateral limb apraxia and left hand agraphia, raising the possibility of cortical dysfunction or disconnection, in addition to corpus callosum and white matter involvement. Her specific pattern of symptoms supports the role of the corpus callosum in interhemispheric communication for complex as well as fine motor activities and may indicate that it can serve as both an inhibitory and excitatory function depending on task demands.
The goal of our study was to characterize the relationship between intertemporal choice and interval timing, including determining how drugs that modulate brain serotonin and dopamine levels influence these two processes. In Experiment 1, rats were tested on a standard 40-s peak-interval procedure following administration of fluoxetine (3, 5, or 8 mg/kg) or vehicle to assess basic effects on interval timing. In Experiment 2, rats were tested in a novel behavioral paradigm intended to simultaneously examine interval timing and impulsivity. Rats performed a variant of the bi-peak procedure using 10-s and 40-s target durations with an additional &quot;defection&quot; lever that provided the possibility of a small, immediate reward. Timing functions remained relatively intact, and 'patience' across subjects correlated with peak times, indicating a negative relationship between 'patience' and clock speed. We next examined the effects of fluoxetine (5 mg/kg), cocaine (15 mg/kg), or methamphetamine (1 mg/kg) on task performance. Fluoxetine reduced impulsivity as measured by defection time without corresponding changes in clock speed. In contrast, cocaine and methamphetamine both increased impulsivity and clock speed. Thus, variations in timing may mediate intertemporal choice via dopaminergic inputs. However, a separate, serotonergic system can affect intertemporal choice without affecting interval timing directly. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Associative and Temporal Learning.
The processes involved in the acquisition of simultaneous temporal processing are currently less understood. For example, it is unclear whether scalar property emerges early during simultaneous temporal acquisition. Using an information-processing model which accounts for the amount of information that each temporal process provides in regard to reward time, we predicted that scalar property would emerge early during the acquisition process, but that subjects should take about 27% longer (more trials) to acquire the long duration than the short duration. To evaluate these predictions, we performed individual-trials analyses to identify changes in timing behavior when rats simultaneously acquire two criterion durations, either 10s and 20s (group 10/20) or 20s and 40s (group 20/40). To analyze the individual trials we used a change-point algorithm to identify changes in rats' wait time. For each individual rat, and for each criterion duration, analyses indicated that simultaneous temporal acquisition is characterized by a sudden change in waiting to a wait-time proportional to the associated criterion. The results failed to indicate group differences in regard to the number of trials it takes for the change in wait-time to occur, but that in both groups, it took longer (more trials) to acquire the long duration than the shorter one, not significantly different from the theoretical prediction. These results are discussed in the framework of an information-processing model informing both associative and temporal learning, thus providing a bridge between the two fields. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Associative and Temporal Learning.
An early finding in the behavioral analysis of learning was that conditioned responding weakens as the conditioned stimulus (CS) and unconditioned stimulus (US) are separated in time. This &quot;trace&quot; conditioning effect has been the focus of years of research in associative learning. Theoretical accounts of trace conditioning have focused on mechanisms that allow associative learning to occur across long intervals between the CS and US. These accounts have emphasized degraded contingency effects, timing mechanisms, and inhibitory learning. More recently, study of the neurobiology of trace conditioning has shown that even a short interval between the CS and US alters the circuitry recruited for learning. Here, we review some of the theoretical and neurobiological mechanisms underlying trace conditioning with an emphasis on recent studies of trace fear conditioning. Findings across many studies have implications not just for how we think about time and conditioning, but also for how we conceptualize fear conditioning in general, suggesting that circuitry beyond the usual suspects needs to be incorporated into current thinking about fear, learning, and anxiety.
Pavlovian conditioning is the reference paradigm for the study of associative learning based on the programmed relation of two stimuli, the conditioned stimulus (CS) and the unconditioned stimulus (US). Some authors believe that learning the CS-US interval is a co-requisite of or a pre-requisite to learning the CS-US association. There is a substantial literature showing that the amygdala is a critical player in Pavlovian conditioning, with both aversive and appetitive USs. We review a sparse but growing body of literature suggesting that the amygdala may also participate in processing the timing of the CS-US interval. We discuss whether the amygdala, in particular its central, basal and lateral nuclei, in concert with the network it belongs to, may play a role in learning the CS-US interval. We also suggest new and dedicated strategies that would result in better knowledge of the neural mechanisms underlying the learning of the CS-US time interval in isolation from the CS-US association.

Although the alliance-outcome correlation is well established, no published studies to date have separated between therapists' and patients' contributions while controlling for early symptom change. In this study, we examined therapist effects in two trials of CBT for panic disorder with agoraphobia (PDA) and the impact of therapists' and patients' contribution to the alliance on outcome and attrition in one trial. Alliance ratings were obtained from patients and therapists early and late in treatment (n=133). Data were analyzed using multi-level modeling controlling for early symptom change. No therapist effects were found. The patients' contribution to the alliance predicted outcome (in both panic severity and anxiety sensitivity) and attrition. The therapists' contribution to the alliance predicted attrition but not outcome. Results suggest that the patient's contribution to the alliance plays an important role in CBT for PDA and that including common factors into research on CBT may help elucidate treatment processes.
Controversy exists as to whether self-reported sleep quality declines with age, despite changes in sleep being accepted as part of normal aging. This study sought to investigate age-related differences in self-reported sleep quality, after controlling for conditions that are common with age, such as psychological symptoms and increased risk of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB). The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) was administered to a sample of 582 community adults (aged 18-89 years), and the association between age and 3 factors of the PSQI (sleep efficiency, perceived sleep quality, and daily disturbance), and global scores, was examined controlling for depression, anxiety, stress, gender, and SDB risk. Results indicate that (a) before controlling for covariates, there was no significant relation between age and all indexes of self-reported sleep quality, with the exception of sleep efficiency. However, once depression, gender, and SDB risk were controlled for, a significant, yet small, relation was revealed between older age and poorer global sleep quality; (b) there was no association between age and perceived sleep quality or daily disturbances before or after controlling for relevant covariates; and (c) depression, gender, and SDB risk were significant predictors of poorer sleep quality across the indexes but, in general, did not have a marked impact on the relation between age and sleep quality. In conclusion, results suggest that sleep problems are common across the lifespan, and that there were modest age-related differences in self-reported sleep quality, which were not due to depressed mood, gender, or risk of SDB.
A pharmacological experiment is typically conducted to: i) test or expand a hypothesis regarding the potential role of a target in the mechanism(s) underlying a disease state using an existing drug or tool compound in normal and/or diseased tissue or animals; or ii) characterize and optimize a new chemical entity (NCE) targeted to modulate a specific disease-associated target to restore homeostasis as a potential drug candidate. Hypothesis testing necessitates an intellectually rigorous, null hypothesis approach that is distinct from a high throughput fishing expedition in search of a hypothesis. In conducting an experiment, the protocol should be transparently defined along with its powering, design, appropriate statistical analysis and consideration of the anticipated outcome (s) before it is initiated. Compound-target interactions often involve the direct study of phenotype(s) unique to the target at the cell, tissue or animal/human level. However, in vivo studies are often compromised by a lack of sufficient information on the compound pharmacokinetics necessary to ensure target engagement and also by the context-free analysis of ubiquitous cellular signaling pathways downstream from the target. The use of single tool compounds/drugs at one concentration in engineered cell lines frequently results in reductionistic data that have no physiologically relevance. This overview, focused on trends in the peer-reviewed literature, discusses the execution and reporting of experiments and the criteria recommended for the physiologically-relevant assessment of target engagement to identify viable new drug targets and facilitate the advancement of translational studies.
The application of detailed quantitative analyses of the concentration dependence of the biological responses mediated by endogenous hormones and other mediators, drugs, and related compounds has been the foundation of pharmacology for the past century or more. This approach has been remarkably successful in identifying the specific molecular targets for these mediators and drugs, in establishing the mechanisms for those effects at both the cellular and whole organismal levels, and in the development of new chemical entities (NCEs) with great selectivity for individual molecular targets. The availability of such compounds has unfortunately led to a mindset that detailed quantitative analyses are no longer necessary to use such compounds in understanding biological system function and to draw valid conclusions in regard to the utility of NCEs selective for putative drug targets in the potential treatment of human disease states. This lack of appreciation for quantitative approaches has contributed significantly to the all-too-frequent failures of new drug candidates in early-stage clinical trials. The present article reviews basic drug/receptor concepts together with the mathematical relationships that underlie the quantitative analysis of dose-response and concentration-effect relationships for individual compounds and for more complex systems, such as the comparative analysis of multiple compounds at a single receptor. A thorough understanding of these concepts and their associated analyses, along with their proper and rigorous application in all pre-clinical drug development studies, is an essential component of an integrated approach toward improving drug development.
Impaired wound healing is an important clinical problem in diabetes mellitus and results in failure to completely heal diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs), which may lead to lower extremity amputations. In the present study, collagen based dressings were prepared to be applied as support for the delivery of neurotensin (NT), a neuropeptide that acts as an inflammatory modulator in wound healing. The performance of NT alone and NT-loaded collagen matrices to treat wounds in streptozotocin (STZ) diabetic induced mice was evaluated. Results showed that the prepared dressings were not-cytotoxic up to 72h after contact with macrophages (Raw 264.7) and human keratinocyte (HaCaT) cell lines. Moreover, those cells were shown to adhere to the collagen matrices without noticeable change in their morphology. NT-loaded collagen dressings induced faster healing (17% wound area reduction) in the early phases of wound healing in diabetic wounded mice. In addition, they also significantly reduced inflammatory cytokine expression namely, TNF- (p&lt;0.01) and IL-1 (p&lt;0.01) and decreased the inflammatory infiltrate at day 3 post-wounding (inflammatory phase). After complete healing, metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) is reduced in diabetic skin (p&lt;0.05) which significantly increased fibroblast migration and collagen (collagen type I, alpha 2 (COL1A2) and collagen type III, alpha 1 (COL3A1)) expression and deposition. These results suggest that collagen-based dressings can be an effective support for NT release into diabetic wound enhancing the healing process. Nevertheless, a more prominent scar is observed in diabetic wounds treated with collagen when compared to the treatment with NT alone.
In Parkinson's disease mitochondrial dysfunction can lead to a deficient ATP supply to microtubule protein motors leading to mitochondrial axonal transport disruption. Compromised axonal transport will then lead to a disorganized distribution of mitochondria and other organelles in the cell, as well as, the accumulation of aggregated proteins like alpha-synuclein. Moreover, axonal transport disruption can trigger synaptic accumulation of autophagosomes packed with damaged mitochondria and protein aggregates promoting synaptic failure. We previously observed that neuronal-like cells with an inherent mitochondrial impairment derived from PD patients contain a disorganized microtubule network, as well as, alpha-synuclein oligomer accumulation. In this work we provide new evidence that an agent that promotes microtubule network assembly, NAP (davunetide), improves microtubule-dependent traffic, restores the autophagic flux and potentiates autophagosome-lysosome fusion leading to autophagic vacuole clearance in Parkinson's disease cells. Moreover, NAP is capable of efficiently reducing alpha-synuclein oligomer content and its sequestration by the mitochondria. Most interestingly, NAP decreases mitochondrial ubiquitination levels, as well as, increases mitochondrial membrane potential indicating a rescue in mitochondrial function. Overall, we demonstrate that by improving microtubule-mediated traffic, we can avoid mitochondrial-induced damage and thus recover cell homeostasis. These results prove that NAP may be a promising therapeutic lead candidate for neurodegenerative diseases that involve axonal transport failure and mitochondrial impairment as hallmarks, like Parkinson's disease and related disorders.
Recent studies of the low abundant signaling lipid, phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate (PI(3,5)P2 ), reveal an intriguingly diverse list of downstream pathways, the intertwined relationship between PI(3,5)P2 and PI5P, as well as links to neurodegenerative diseases. Derived from the structural lipid phosphatidylinositol, PI(3,5)P2 is dynamically generated on multiple cellular compartments where interactions with an increasing list of effectors regulate many cellular pathways. A complex of proteins that includes Fab1/PIKfyve, Vac14, and Fig4/Sac3 mediates the biosynthesis of PI(3,5)P2 , and mutations that disrupt complex function and/or formation cause profound consequences in cells. Surprisingly, mutations in this pathway are linked with neurological diseases, including Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Future studies of PI(3,5)P2 and PI5P are likely to expand the roles of these lipids in regulation of cellular functions, as well as provide new approaches for treatment of some neurological diseases.
Endogenous morphine and its derivatives (morphine-6-glucuronide [M6G]; morphine-3-glucuronide [M3G]) are formed by mammalian cells from dopamine. Changes in the concentrations of endogenous morphine have been demonstrated in several pathologies (sepsis, Parkinson's disease, etc.), and they might be relevant as pathological markers. While endogenous morphine levels are detectable using enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA), mass spectrometry (MS) analysis was, so far, the only approach to detect and quantify M6G. This study describes the preparation of a specific anti-M6G rabbit polyclonal antibody and its validation. The specificity of this antibody was assessed against 30 morphine-related compounds. Then, a M6G-specific ELISA-assay was tested to quantify M6G in the plasma of healthy donors, morphine-treated, and critically ill patients. The antibody raised against M6G displays a strong affinity for M6G, codeine-6-glucuronide, and morphine-3-6-glucuronide, whereas only weak cross-reactivities were observed for the other compounds. Both M6G-ELISA and LC-MS/MS approaches revealed the absence of M6G in the plasma of healthy donors (controls, n = 8). In all positive donors treated with morphine-patch (n = 5), M6G was detected using both M6G-ELISA and LC-MS/MS analysis. Finally, in a study on critically ill patients with circulating endogenous morphine (n = 26), LC-MS/MS analysis revealed that 73% of the positive-patients (19 of 26), corresponding to high M6G-levels in M6G-ELISA, contained M6G. In conclusion, we show that endogenous M6G can be found at higher levels than morphine in the blood of morphine-naive patients. With respect to the interest of measuring endogenous M6G in pathologies, we provide evidences that our ELISA procedure represents a powerful tool as it can easily and specifically detect endogenous M6G levels.
Signal-transducing adaptor protein-2 (STAP-2) is a recently identified adaptor protein that contains a pleckstrin homology (PH), Src homology 2 (SH2)-like domains, and proline-rich regions in its C-terminal. STAP-2 belongs to a family of STAP adaptor proteins and plays a crucial role in a variety of cellular signal transduction pathways by interacting with signaling or transcriptional molecules. STAP-2, in particular, regulates both the innate and adaptive immune systems. STAP-2 functionally interacts with signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5 in cytokine signaling pathways. In addition, STAP-2 also binds to myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) and inhibitor (I)B kinase / (IKK-/) in Toll-like receptor4 (TLR4) signaling, and enhances the production of inflammatory cytokines in macrophages. More importantly, experiments using STAP-2 deficient mice show that STAP-2 modulates several T-cell functions such as cell motility, survival and death. It is also reported that STAP-2 controls the immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated allergy response. This accumulated evidence indicates that adaptor protein STAP-2 is an important modulator of both the innate and adaptive immune systems.



Candidate gene  environment (G  E) interaction research tests the hypothesis that the effects of some environmental variable (e.g., childhood maltreatment) on some outcome measure (e.g., depression) depend on a particular genetic polymorphism. Because this research is inherently nonexperimental, investigators have been rightly concerned that detected interactions could be driven by confounders (e.g., ethnicity, gender, age, socioeconomic status) rather than by the specified genetic or environmental variables per se. In an attempt to eliminate such alternative explanations for detected G  E interactions, investigators routinely enter the potential confounders as covariates in general linear models. However, this practice does not control for the effects these variables might have on the G  E interaction. Rather, to properly control for confounders, researchers need to enter the covariate  environment and the covariate  gene interaction terms in the same model that tests the G  E term. In this manuscript, I demonstrate this point analytically and show that the practice of improperly controlling for covariates is the norm in the G  E interaction literature to date. Thus, many alternative explanations for G  E findings that investigators had thought were eliminated have not been.


Two types of biofeedback (BF), tomographic electroencephalogram (EEG) neurofeedback (NF) and electromyographic biofeedback (EMG-BF), both with phasic and tonic protocols, were compared for treatment effects and specificity in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Thirteen children with ADHD trained their brain activity in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and twelve trained activity of arm muscles involved in fine motor skills. In each training session, resting state 24-channel EEG and training performances were recorded. Both groups showed similar behavioral improvements and artifact reduction in selected conditions, with no significant advantages despite medium effect sizes on primary outcomes for NF. Only the EMG-BF group, however, showed clear improvement in training regulation performance, and specific motor coordination effects. The NF group tended to present individual normalization of trained frequency bands in the ACC during rest across training. The results provide evidence for some specific effects in our small sample, albeit only to a small extent.

With the advent of brain computer interfaces based on real-time fMRI (rtfMRI-BCI), the possibility of performing neurofeedback based on brain hemodynamics has become a reality. In the early stage of the development of this field, studies have focused on the volitional control of activity in circumscribed brain regions. However, based on the understanding that the brain functions by coordinated activity of spatially distributed regions, there have recently been further developments to incorporate real-time feedback of functional connectivity and spatio-temporal patterns of brain activity. The present article reviews the principles of rtfMRI neurofeedback, its applications, benefits and limitations. A special emphasis is given to the discussion of novel developments that have enabled the use of this methodology to achieve self-regulation of the functional connectivity between different brain areas and of distributed brain networks, anticipating new and exciting applications for cognitive neuroscience and for the potential alleviation of neuropsychiatric disorders.
To promote optimal health and behavioral outcomes in children, nurses have long supported parents in providing the best possible care and nurturance to their offspring. A growing body of neuroscience research argues convincingly for the combined influences of genes and early caregiving on producing an individual's unique health and behavioral phenotype. In this article, we systematically review studies that demonstrate the relationship between qualities of early caregiving and genetic propensity to health and behavioral outcomes. From an initial set of 255 articles, 24 articles met our inclusion criteria. The outcomes fall into four distinct groups: hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) response to stress, externalizing behavior, internalizing behavior, and disorganized attachment. In the articles, authors examined genes that code for the 5-hydroxy tryptamine (serotonin) transporter genes linked polymorphic region [5-HTTLPR] serotonin transporter promoter, D4 dopamine receptor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and monoamine oxidase A promoter. The reviewed studies suggest that the effect of the early rearing environment on gene expression relates mainly to HPA response to stress, whereas interactions between genes and caregiving mainly relate to behavior and attachment. Findings have implications for nurses focused on advocacy, prevention, and intervention to support the healthy development of children in families faced with adversity.
Understanding the way stimulus properties are encoded in the nerve cell responses of sensory organs is one of the fundamental scientific questions in neurosciences. Different neuronal coding hypotheses can be compared by use of an inverse procedure called stimulus reconstruction. Here, based on different attributes of experimentally recorded neuronal responses, the values of certain stimulus properties are estimated by statistical classification methods. Comparison of stimulus reconstruction results then allows to draw conclusions about relative importance of covariate features. Since many stimulus properties have a natural order and can therefore be considered as ordinal, we introduce a bivariate ordinal probit model to obtain classifications for the combination of light intensity and velocity of a visual dot pattern based on different covariates extracted from recorded spike trains. For parameter estimation, we develop a Bayesian Gibbs sampler and incorporate penalized splines to model nonlinear effects. We compare the classification performance of different individual cell covariates and simple features of groups of neurons and find that the combination of at least two covariates increases the classification performance significantly. Furthermore, we obtain a non-linear effect for the first spike latency. The model is compared to a nave Bayesian stimulus estimation method where it yields comparable misclassification rates for the given dataset. Hence, the bivariate ordinal probit model is shown to be a helpful tool for stimulus reconstruction particularly thanks to its flexibility with respect to the number of covariates as well as their scale and effect type.


The purpose of this study was to prepare a monolayer of neural stem/precursor cells (NSPCs) for neural tissue engineering applications. Two components present in serum, fibronectin and epidermal growth factor (EGF) were added into DMEM/F12 medium (termed medium B) to examine the effect of the migration-, proliferation- and differentiation-promoting potential on the cultured NSPCs, isolated from embryonic rat cerebral cortex. Compared with the serum effect, medium B also permitted neurosphere attachment onto the substrate surface and cell migration out of neurospheres extensively, but enhanced more extensive cell division and slowed down NSPC differentiation to generate a confluent NSPC monolayer. It was found the medium B-treated NSPCs possessed the capability to form typical neurospheres or to undergo differentiation into neuron-related cell types on various biomaterial surfaces. Therefore, we proposed a two-stage process for wound healing or nerve conduit preparation. Extensive NSPC division and MAP2-positive neuron differentiation were manipulated in NSPCs cultured in the medium B followed by the neuronal differentiation-favorable medium. These results should be useful for controlling the proliferation and differentiation of NSPCs on various biomaterials and conduits in neuroscience research.
Agglomeration dramatically affects many aspects of nanoparticle-cell interactions. Here we show that hydroxyapatite nanoparticles formed large agglomerates in biological medium resulting in extensive particle uptake and dose-dependent cytotoxicity in human macrophages. Particle citration and/or the addition of the dispersant Darvan 7 dramatically reduced mean agglomerate sizes, the amount of particle uptake and concomitantly cytotoxicity. More surprisingly, agglomeration governed the mode of particle uptake. Agglomerates were sequestered within an extensive, interconnected membrane labyrinth open to the extracellular space. In spite of not being truly intracellular, imaging studies suggest particle degradation occurred within this surface-connected compartment (SCC). Agglomerate dispersion prevented the SCC from forming, but did not completely inhibit nanoparticle uptake by other mechanisms. The results of this study could be relevant to understanding particle-cell interactions during developmental mineral deposition, in ectopic calcification in disease, and during application of hydroxyapatite nanoparticle vectors in biomedicine.
Stem cell differentiation is regulated by complex repertoires of signaling ligands which often use multivalent interactions, where multiple ligands tethered to one entity interact with multiple cellular receptors to yield oligomeric complexes. One such ligand is Sonic hedgehog (Shh), whose posttranslational lipid modifications and assembly into multimers enhance its biological potency, potentially through receptor clustering. Investigations of Shh typically utilize recombinant, monomeric protein, and thus the impact of multivalency on ligand potency is unexplored. Among its many activities, Shh is required for ventralization of the midbrain and forebrain and is therefore critical for the development of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) and forebrain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) inhibitory neurons. We have designed multivalent biomaterials presenting Shh in defined spatial arrangements and investigated the role of Shh valency in ventral specification of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) into these therapeutically relevant cell types. Multivalent Shh conjugates with optimal valencies, compared to the monomeric Shh, increased the percentages of neurons belonging to mDA or forebrain GABAergic fates from 33% to 60% or 52% to 86%, respectively. Thus, multivalent Shh bioconjugates can enhance neuronal lineage commitment of pluripotent stem cells and thereby facilitate efficient derivation of neurons that could be used to treat Parkinson's and epilepsy patients.
Progression of RNA interference-based gene silencing technologies for the treatment of disorders of the central nervous system (CNS) depends on the availability of efficient non-toxic nanocarriers. Despite advances in the field of nanotechnology undesired and non-specific interactions with different brain-cell types occur and are poorly investigated. To this end, we studied the cytotoxic and neuroinflammatory effects of widely-used transfection reagents and modified amphiphilic -cyclodextrins (CDs). All non-viral vectors formed positively charged nanoparticles with distinctive physicochemical properties. Differential and significant cytotoxic effects were observed among commercially available cationic vectors, whereas CDs induced limited disruptions of cellular membrane integrity and mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity. Interestingly, murine derived BV2 microglia cells and a rat striatal in vitro model of Huntington's disease (ST14A-HTT120Q) were more susceptible to toxicity than human U87 astroglioma cells. BV2 microglia presented significant increases in cytokine, toll-like receptor 2 and cyclooxygenase-2 gene expression after transfection with selected commercial vectors but not with CD.siRNA nanoparticles. Non-viral siRNA nanoparticles formulated with G6 polyamidoamine (PAMAM) also significantly increased cytokine gene expression in the brain following injections into the mouse striatum. Together our data identify modified CDs as nanosystems that enable siRNA delivery to the brain with low levels of cytotoxicity and immunological activation.
A large number of the antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) presently available for clinical practice are chiral compounds while others, although achiral, may originate pharmacologically active chiral metabolites in vivo. The well-known implications of chirality in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics demand the investigation of pharmacological properties for a racemic mixture and each enantiomer. To achieve these objectives, appropriate chiral analytical methods must be available. This article provides the first review of the current state of the art in chiral chromatographic methods available for quantifying enantiomers of AEDs in distinct matrices. Particular attention is paid to the methodological aspects and optimization strategies that successfully allow enantiomeric chromatographic separation of chiral AEDs and/or metabolites. Furthermore, the relevance of these methods in supporting the discovery and development of chiral AEDs is emphasized. In parallel and whenever available, the principal validation parameters are herein considered and related to the stage of drug discovery and development. In an attempt to optimize anticonvulsant activity and simultaneously diminish toxic effects, many pharmaceutical companies have started to manufacture single enantiomers. Therefore, chiral chromatographic techniques will be essential and the information herein compiled can be used as a framework for developing them.
Canine cutaneous mast cell tumour (CMCT) is a c-Kit driven tumour sharing similar c-Kit aberrations found in human gastrointestinal stromal tumour. CMCT is classified into three forms: well- (G1), intermediately (G2) (more benign diseases), and poorly (G3) differentiated (malignant) forms. We assess a correlation between c-Kit status, grading, and angiogenesis in CMCTs to explore their potential significance in humans. C-Kit receptor (c-KitR) expression, microvascular density (MVD), and mast cell granulated and degranulated status density (MCGD and MCDD, resp.) were analyzed in 97 CMCTs, by means of histochemistry, immunohistochemistry double staining, and image analysis system. Data showed that predominantly diffuse cytoplasmic- and predominantly focal paranuclear- (Golgi-like) c-Kit protein (PDC-c-Kit and PFP-c-Kit, resp.) expression correlate with high MVD, G3 histopathological grade, and MCDD. Moreover, predominant cell membrane-c-KitR (PCM-c-KitR) expression status correlates with low MVD, G1-G2 histopathological grade, and MCGD. These findings underline the key role of c-Kit in the biopathology of canine MCTs, indicating a link between aberrant c-Kit expression, increased angiogenesis, and higher histopathological grade. CMCT seems to be a model to study contributions of c-Kit activated MCs in tumour angiogenesis and to evaluate the inhibition of MCs activation by means of c-Kit tyrosine kinase inhibitors, currently translated in humans.
Rationale and Objectives. The primary objective of the current investigation was to characterize white matter integrity in different subtypes of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) using tract-based spatial statistics of diffusion tensor imaging. Materials and Methods. The study participants were divided into 4 groups of 30 subjects each as follows: cognitively healthy controls, amnestic MCI, dysexecutive MCI, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). All subjects underwent a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment, apolipoprotein E genotyping, and 3-tesla MRI. The diffusion tensor was reconstructed and then analyzed using tract-based spatial statistics. The changes in brain white matter tracts were also examined according to the apolipoprotein E  4 status. Results. Compared with controls, amnestic MCI patients showed significant differences in the cerebral white matter, where changes were consistently detectable in the frontal and parietal lobes. We found a moderate impact of the apolipoprotein E  4 status on the extent of white matter disruption in the amnestic MCI group. Patients with AD exhibited similar but more extensive alterations, while no significant changes were observed in dysexecutive MCI patients. Conclusion. The results from this study indicate that amnestic MCI is the most likely precursor to AD as both conditions share significant white matter damage. By contrast, dysexecutive MCI seems to be characterized by a distinct pathogenesis.

A variety of new bioartificial nerve guides have been tested preclinically for their safety and nerve regeneration supporting properties. So far, only a limited number of biomaterials have been tested in humans since the step from preclinical work to a clinical application is challenging. We here present an in vitro model with human Schwann cells (hSCs) as an intermediate step towards clinical application of the nerve guide Perimaix, a collagen-based microstructured 3D scaffold containing numerous longitudinal guidance channels for directed axonal growth. hSCs were seeded onto different prototypes of Perimaix and cultivated for 14 days. hSC adhered to the scaffold, proliferated, and demonstrated healthy Schwann cell morphology (spindle shaped cell bodies, bipolar oriented processes) not only at the surface of the material, but also in the deeper layers of the scaffold. The general well-being of the cells was quantitatively confirmed by low levels of lactate dehydrogenase release into the culture medium. Moreover, conditioned medium of hSCs that were cultivated on Perimaix was able to modify neurite outgrowth from sensory dorsal root ganglion neurons. Overall these data indicate that Perimaix is able to provide a matrix that can promote the attachment and supports process extension, migration, and proliferation of hSC.


Background. Plantarflexion results from the combined action of the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles in the calf. The heel rise test is commonly used to test calf muscle endurance, function, and performance by a wide variety of professionals; however, no uniform description of the test is available. This paper aims to document the construction and reliability of a novel heel rise test device and measurement protocol that is suitable for the needs of most individuals. Methods. This device was constructed from compact and lightweight materials and is fully adjustable, enabling the testing of a wide variety of individuals. It is easy to assemble and disassemble, ensuring that it is portable for use in different settings. Findings. We tested reliability on 40 participants, finding excellent interrater reliability (ICC2,1 0.97, 95% CI: 0.94 to 0.98). Limits of agreement were less than two repetitions in 90% of cases and the Bland-Altman plot showed no bias. Interpretation. We have designed a novel, standardized, simple, and reliable device and measurement protocol for the heel rise test which can be used by researchers and clinicians in a variety of settings.
To investigate neurochemical changes associated with bortezomib-induced painful peripheral neuropathy (PN), we examined the effects of a single-dose intravenous administration of bortezomib and a well-established &quot;chronic&quot; schedule in a rat model of bortezomib-induced PN. The TRPV1 channel and sensory neuropeptides CGRP and substance P (SP) were studied in L4-L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs), spinal cord, and sciatic nerve. Behavioral measures, performed at the end of the chronic bortezomib treatment, confirmed a reduction of mechanical nociceptive threshold, whereas no difference occurred in thermal withdrawal latency. Western blot analysis showed a relative increase of TRPV1 in DRG and spinal cord after both acute and chronic bortezomib administration. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed a decrease of TRPV1 and CGRP mRNA relative levels after chronic treatment. Immunohistochemistry showed that in the DRGs, TRPV1-, CGRP-, and SP-immunoreactive neurons were mostly small- and medium-sized and the proportion of TRPV1- and CGRP-labeled neurons increased after treatment. A bortezomib-induced increase in density of TRPV1- and CGRP-immunoreactive innervation in the dorsal horn was also observed. Our findings show that bortezomib-treatment selectively affects subsets of DRG neurons likely involved in the processing of nociceptive stimuli and that neurochemical changes may contribute to development and persistence of pain in bortezomib-induced PN.

The palmaris longus is considered a phylogenetic degenerate metacarpophalangeal joint flexor muscle in humans, a small vestigial forearm muscle; it is the most variable muscle in humans, showing variation in position, duplication, slips and could be reverted. It is frequently studied in papers about human anatomical variations in cadavers and in vivo, its variation has importance in medical clinic, surgery, radiological analysis, in studies about high-performance athletes, in genetics and anthropologic studies. Most studies about palmaris longus in humans are associated to frequency or case studies, but comparative anatomy in primates and comparative morphometry were not found in scientific literature. Comparative anatomy associated to morphometry of palmaris longus could explain the degeneration observed in this muscle in two of three of the great apes. Hypothetically, the comparison of the relative length of tendons and belly could indicate the pathway of the degeneration of this muscle, that is, the degeneration could be associated to increased tendon length and decreased belly from more primitive primates to those most derivate, that is, great apes to modern humans. In conclusion, in primates, the tendon of the palmaris longus increase from Lemuriformes to modern humans, that is, from arboreal to terrestrial primates and the muscle became weaker and tending to be missing.

Anomia, a word-finding difficulty, is a frequent consequence of poststroke linguistic disturbance, associated with fluent and nonfluent aphasia that needs long-term specific and intensive speech rehabilitation. The present study explored the feasibility of telerehabilitation as compared to a conventional face-to-face treatment of naming, in patients with poststroke anomia. Five aphasic chronic patients participated in this study characterized by: strictly controlled crossover design; well-balanced lists of words in picture-naming tasks where progressive phonological cues were provided; same kind of the treatment in the two ways of administration. ANOVA was used to compare naming accuracy in the two types of treatment, at three time points: baseline, after treatment, and followup. The results revealed no main effect of treatment type (P = 0.844) indicating that face-to-face and tele-treatment yielded comparable results. Moreover, there was a significant main effect of time (P = 0.0004) due to a better performance immediately after treatment and in the followup when comparing them to baseline. These preliminary results show the feasibility of teletreatment applied to lexical deficits in chronic stroke patients, extending previous work on telerehabilitation and opening new vistas for future studies on teletreatment of language functions.

We report on the performance of composite nerve grafts with an inner 3D multichannel porous chitosan core and an outer electrospun polycaprolactone shell. The inner chitosan core provided multiple guidance channels for regrowing axons. To analyze the in vivo properties of the bare chitosan cores, we separately implanted them into an epineural sheath. The effects of both graft types on structural and functional regeneration across a 10mm rat sciatic nerve gap were compared to autologous nerve transplantation (ANT). The mechanical biomaterial properties and the immunological impact of the grafts were assessed with histological techniques before and after transplantation in vivo. Furthermore during a 13-week examination period functional tests and electrophysiological recordings were performed and supplemented by nerve morphometry. The sheathing of the chitosan core with a polycaprolactone shell induced massive foreign body reaction and impairment of nerve regeneration. Although the isolated novel chitosan core did allow regeneration of axons in a similar size distribution as the ANT, the ANT was superior in terms of functional regeneration. We conclude that an outer polycaprolactone shell should not be used for the purpose of bioartificial nerve grafting, while 3D multichannel porous chitosan cores could be candidate scaffolds for structured nerve grafts.
Background. We performed a retrospective study to assess whether the initial molecular characteristics of glioblastomas (GBMs) were associated with the response to the bevacizumab/irinotecan chemotherapy regimen given at recurrence. Results. Comparison of the genomic and gene expression profiles of the responders (n = 12) and nonresponders (n = 13) demonstrated only slight differences and could not identify any robust biomarkers associated with the response. In contrast, a significant association was observed between GBMs molecular subtypes and response rates. GBMs assigned to molecular subtype IGS-18 and to classical subtype had a lower response rate than those assigned to other subtypes. In an independent series of 33 patients, neither EGFR amplification nor CDKN2A deletion (which are frequent in IGS-18 and classical GBMs) was significantly associated with the response rate, suggesting that these two alterations are unlikely to explain the lower response rate of these GBMs molecular subtypes. Conclusion. Despite its limited sample size, the present study suggests that comparing the initial molecular profiles of responders and nonresponders might not be an effective strategy to identify biomarkers of the response to bevacizumab given at recurrence. Yet it suggests that the response rate might differ among GBMs molecular subtypes.
Tumoral neoangiogenesis characterizes high grade gliomas. Relative Cerebral Blood Volume (rCBV), calculated with Dynamic Susceptibility Contrast (DSC) Perfusion-Weighted Imaging (PWI), allows for the estimation of vascular density over the tumor bed. The aim of the study was to characterize putative tumoral neoangiogenesis via the study of maximal rCBV with a Region of Interest (ROI) approach in three tumor areas-the contrast-enhancing area, the nonenhancing tumor, and the high perfusion area on CBV map-in patients affected by contrast-enhancing glioma (grades III and IV). Twenty-one patients were included: 15 were affected by grade IV and 6 by grade III glioma. Maximal rCBV values for each patient were averaged according to glioma grade. Although rCBV from contrast-enhancement and from nonenhancing tumor areas was higher in grade IV glioma than in grade III (5.58 and 2.68; 3.01 and 2.2, resp.), the differences were not significant. Instead, rCBV recorded in the high perfusion area on CBV map, independently of tumor compartment, was significantly higher in grade IV glioma than in grade III (7.51 versus 3.78, P = 0.036). In conclusion, neoangiogenesis encompasses different tumor compartments and CBV maps appear capable of best characterizing the degree of neovascularization. Facing contrast-enhancing brain tumors, areas of high perfusion on CBV maps should be considered as the reference areas to be targeted for glioma grading.
Skeletal muscle, a tissue endowed with remarkable endogenous regeneration potential, is still under focused experimental investigation mainly due to treatment potential for muscle trauma and muscular dystrophies. Resident satellite cells with stem cell features were enthusiastically described quite a long time ago, but activation of these cells is not yet controlled by any medical interventions. However, after thorough reports of their existence, survival, activation, and differentiation there are still many questions to be answered regarding the intimate mechanism of tissue regeneration. This review delivers an up-to-date inventory of the main known key players in skeletal muscle repair, revealed by various models of tissue injuries in mechanical trauma, toxic lesions, and muscular dystrophy. A better understanding of the spatial and temporal relationships between various cell populations, with different physical or paracrine interactions and phenotype changes induced by local or systemic signalling, might lead to a more efficient approach for future therapies.
PET based tools can improve the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and differential diagnosis of dementia. The importance of identifying individuals at risk of developing dementia among people with subjective cognitive complaints or mild cognitive impairment has clinical, social, and therapeutic implications. Within the two major classes of AD biomarkers currently identified, that is, markers of pathology and neurodegeneration, amyloid- and FDG-PET imaging represent decisive tools for their measurement. As a consequence, the PET tools have been recognized to be of crucial value in the recent guidelines for the early diagnosis of AD and other dementia conditions. The references based recommendations, however, include large PET imaging literature based on visual methods that greatly reduces sensitivity and specificity and lacks a clear cut-off between normal and pathological findings. PET imaging can be assessed using parametric or voxel-wise analyses by comparing the subject's scan with a normative data set, significantly increasing the diagnostic accuracy. This paper is a survey of the relevant literature on FDG and amyloid-PET imaging aimed at providing the value of quantification for the early and differential diagnosis of AD. This allowed a meta-analysis and GRADE analysis revealing high values for PET imaging that might be useful in considering recommendations.
Neuropeptide Y was isolated from the porcine brain in 1982 and shown to be colocalized with noradrenaline in sympathetic nerve terminals. The peptide has been demonstrated to be present in sympathetic nerve fibers innervating the pineal gland in many mammalian species. In this investigation, we show by use of immunohistochemistry that neuropeptide Y is present in nerve fibers of the adult human pineal gland. The fibers are classical neuropeptidergic fibers endowed with large boutons en passage and primarily located in a perifollicular position with some fibers entering the pineal parenchyma inside the follicle. The distance from the immunoreactive terminals to the pinealocytes indicates a modulatory function of neuropeptide Y for pineal physiology. Some of the immunoreactive fibers might originate from neurons located in the brain and be a part of the central innervation of the pineal gland. In a series of human fetuses, neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibers was present and could be detected as early as in the pineal of four- to five-month-old fetuses. This early innervation of the human pineal is different from most rodents, where the innervation starts postnatally.
Inflammation plays a central role in neonatal brain injury. During brain inflammation the resident macrophages of the brain, the microglia cells, are rapidly activated. In the periphery,  7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (  7R) present on macrophages can regulate inflammation by suppressing cytokine release. In the current study we investigated  7R expression in neonatal mice after hypoxia-ischemia (HI). We further examined possible anti-inflammatory role of  7R stimulation in vitro and microglia polarization after  7R agonist treatment. Real-time PCR analysis showed a 33% reduction in  7R expression 72h after HI. Stimulation of primary microglial cells with LPS in combination with increasing doses of the selective  7R agonist AR-R 17779 significantly attenuated TNF  release and increased  7R transcript in microglial cells. Gene expression of M1 markers CD86 and iNOS, as well as M2 marker CD206 was not influenced by LPS and/or  7R agonist treatment. Further, Mox markers heme oxygenase (Hmox1) and sulforedoxin-1 (Srx1) were significantly increased, suggesting a polarization towards the Mox phenotype after  7R stimulation. Thus, our data suggest a role for the  7R also in the neonatal brain and support the anti-inflammatory role of  7R in microglia, suggesting that  7R stimulation could enhance the polarization towards a reparative Mox phenotype.
Determination of the volumes of acute cerebral infarct in the magnetic resonance imaging harbors prognostic values. However, semiautomatic method of segmentation is time-consuming and with high interrater variability. Using diffusion weighted imaging and apparent diffusion coefficient map from patients with acute infarction in 10 days, we aimed to develop a fully automatic algorithm to measure infarct volume. It includes an unsupervised classification with fuzzy C-means clustering determination of the histographic distribution, defining self-adjusted intensity thresholds. The proposed method attained high agreement with the semiautomatic method, with similarity index 89.9  6.5%, in detecting cerebral infarct lesions from 22 acute stroke patients. We demonstrated the accuracy of the proposed computer-assisted prompt segmentation method, which appeared promising to replace the laborious, time-consuming, and operator-dependent semiautomatic segmentation.
Previous studies indicated that intracerebroventricular administration of nerve growth factor (NGF) leads to massive Schwann cell hyperplasia surrounding the medulla oblongata and spinal cord. This study was designed to characterize the proliferation of peripheral glial cells, that is, Schwann and satellite cells, in the trigeminal ganglia and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of adult rats during two weeks of NGF infusion using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to label dividing cells. The trigeminal ganglia as well as the cervical and lumbar DRG were analyzed. Along the entire neuraxis a small number of dividing cells were observed within these regions under physiological condition. NGF infusion has dramatically increased the generation of new cells in the neuronal soma and axonal compartments of sensory ganglia and along the dorsal root and the dorsal root entry zone. Quantification of BrdU positive cells within sensory ganglia revealed a 2.3- to 3-fold increase in glial cells compared to controls with a similar response to NGF for the different peripheral ganglia examined. Immunofluorescent labeling with S100 revealed that Schwann and satellite cells underwent mitosis after NGF administration. These data indicate that intracerebroventricular NGF infusion significantly induces gliogenesis in trigeminal ganglia and the spinal sensory ganglia and along the dorsal root entry zone as well as the dorsal root.
Over the past few decades, chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) has been considered a disease of the lungs, often caused by smoking. Nowadays, COPD is regarded as a systemic disease. Both physical effects and effects on brains, including impaired psychological and cognitive functioning, have been demonstrated. Patients with COPD may have cognitive impairment, either globally or in single cognitive domains, such as information processing, attention and concentration, memory, executive functioning, and self-control. Possible causes are hypoxemia, hypercapnia, exacerbations, and decreased physical activity. Cognitive impairment in these patients may be related to structural brain abnormalities, such as gray-matter pathologic changes and the loss of white matter integrity which can be induced by smoking. Cognitive impairment can have a negative impact on health and daily life and may be associated with widespread consequences for disease management programs. It is important to assess cognitive functioning in patients with COPD in order to optimize patient-oriented treatment and to reduce personal discomfort, hospital admissions, and mortality. This paper will summarize the current knowledge about cognitive impairment as extrapulmonary feature of COPD. Hereby, the impact of smoking on cognitive functioning and the impact of cognitive impairment on smoking behaviour will be examined.
A significant portion of previously deployed combat Veterans from Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom/Operation New Dawn (OEF/OIF/OND) are affected by comorbid posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI). Despite this fact, neuroimaging studies investigating the neural correlates of cognitive dysfunction within this population are almost nonexistent, with the exception of research examining the neural correlates of diagnostic PTSD or TBI. The current study used both voxel-based and surface-based morphometry to determine whether comorbid PTSD/mTBI is characterized by altered brain structure in the same regions as observed in singular diagnostic PTSD or TBI. Furthermore, we assessed whether alterations in brain structures in these regions were associated with behavioral measures related to inhibitory control, as assessed by the Go/No-go task, self-reports of impulsivity, and/or PTSD or mTBI symptoms. Results indicate volumetric reductions in the bilateral anterior amygdala in our comorbid PTSD/mTBI sample as compared to a control sample of OEF/OIF Veterans with no history of mTBI and/or PTSD. Moreover, increased volume reduction in the amygdala predicted poorer inhibitory control as measured by performance on the Go/No-go task, increased self-reported impulsivity, and greater symptoms associated with PTSD. These findings suggest that alterations in brain anatomy in OEF/OIF/OND Veterans with comorbid PTSD/mTBI are associated with both cognitive deficits and trauma symptoms related to PTSD.
Verbascoside (VB) is a bioactive polyphenol from olive oil mill wastewater with known antioxidant activity. Oxidative stress is an emerging problem in assisted reproductive technology (ART). Juvenile ART is a promising topic because, in farm animals, it reduces the generation gap and, in human reproductive medicine, it helps to overcome premature ovarian failure. The aim of this study was to test the effects of VB on the developmental competence of ovine prepubertal oocytes and the bioenergetic/oxidative stress status of fresh and vitrified oocytes. In fresh oocytes, VB exerted prooxidant short-term effects, that is, catalase activity increase and uncoupled increases of mitochondria and reactive oxygen species (ROS) fluorescence signals, and long-term effects, that is, reduced blastocyst formation rate. In vitrified oocytes, VB increased ROS levels. Prooxidant VB effects in ovine prepubertal oocytes could be related to higher VB accumulation, which was found as almost one thousand times higher than that reported in other cell systems in previous studies. Also, long exposure times of oocytes to VB, throughout the duration of in vitro maturation culture, may have contributed to significant increase of oocyte oxidation. Further studies are needed to identify lower concentrations and/or shorter exposure times to figure out VB antioxidant effects in juvenile ARTs.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) plays an important role in motivation and motor activity of mammals. Previous studies have reported that electrical stimulations of the VTA's neuronal projections were able to upregulate the locomotor activity of behaving rats. However, which types of neurons in the VTA that take part in the activation remain elusive. In this paper we employed optogenetic technique to selectively activate the excitatory neurons expressing CaMKII in the VTA region and induced a higher locomotor activity for free behaving rats. Further behavioral studies indicated that reward learning mediated in the enhancement of the rat locomotor activity. Finally the immunohistochemistry studies explored that the excitatory neurons under the optogenetic activation in VTA were partly dopaminergic that may participate as a vital role in the optogenetic activation of the locomotor activity. In total, our study provided an optogenetic approach to selectively upregulate the locomotor activity of free behaving rats, thus facilitating both neuroscience researches and neural engineering such as animal robotics in the future.
Myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity is suggested to reduce the function of vascular nitric oxide, thereby contributing to endothelial dysfunction, although data in rodents are inconclusive. We examined vascular contractile and relaxant responses in MPO-deficient (MPO(-/-)) and wild-type mice to investigate the role for myeloperoxidase in the development of endothelial dysfunction. Carotid and saphenous arteries were taken from 8-month-old mice and studied in a myograph. Responses of carotid arteries to phenylephrine, high potassium, or acetylcholine (Ach) were statistically not different from controls. Treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS; to enhance endothelial dysfunction) reduced responses to Ach in MPO(-/-) but did not affect responses in wild-type. In response to high concentrations of Ach, carotid arteries responded with transient contractions, which were not different between the groups and not affected by LPS treatment. Saphenous arteries from MPO(-/-) had smaller normalized diameters and developed less contractile force. Vessels from MPO(-/-) were less sensitive to Ach than controls. These data suggest that mature MPO-deficient mice do not show enhanced endothelial function compared to wild-type mice, even when provoked with LPS treatment. The EDHF response appears to be reduced in MPO deficiency.
The neuropsychological tests in patients with internal carotid artery (ICA) demonstrated cognitive deficits associated with frontal lobe dysfunction, but the pathophysiological mechanism of memory impairment is not fully understood. This study evaluated relationship between degree of ICA stenosis and frontal activations induced by working memory (WM) task using fMRI. The fMRI data of 21 patients with unilateral ICA stenosis (left/right, 11/10) and 21 controls were analyzed. In comparison with controls, ICA patients demonstrated significant activations in middle frontal gyrus (MFG) bilaterally, particularly in left MFG. In right ICA stenosis, there was slightly less MFG activation than that of controls. Importantly, lower MFG activity was associated with higher stenosis of ipsilateral ICA. For left ICA stenosis, weaker activation in left MFG was negatively correlated with degree of stenosis. Similarly, for right ICA stenosis, there was a significant negative correlation between right ICA stenosis and weaker activation of right MFG. Cognitive impairments in ICA stenosis were associated with frontal lobe dysfunctions. Left ICA stenosis had worse WM impairments than right ICA stenosis, which was affected by the degree of stenosis.


Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is frequently associated with abnormal blood-brain barrier function, resulting in the release of factors that can be used as molecular biomarkers of TBI, among them GFAP, UCH-L1, S100B, and NSE. Although many experimental studies have been conducted, clinical consolidation of these biomarkers is still needed to increase the predictive power and reduce the poor outcome of TBI. Interestingly, several of these TBI biomarkers are oxidatively modified to carbonyl groups, indicating that markers of oxidative stress could be of predictive value for the selection of therapeutic strategies. Some drugs such as corticosteroids and progesterone have already been investigated in TBI neuroprotection but failed to demonstrate clinical applicability in advanced phases of the studies. Dietary antioxidants, such as curcumin, resveratrol, and sulforaphane, have been shown to attenuate TBI-induced damage in preclinical studies. These dietary antioxidants can increase antioxidant defenses via transcriptional activation of NRF2 and are also known as carbonyl scavengers, two potential mechanisms for neuroprotection. This paper reviews the relevance of redox biology in TBI, highlighting perspectives for future studies.



The presence of psychotic features in the course of a depressive disorder is known to increase the risk for bipolarity, but the early identification of such cases remains challenging in clinical practice. In the present study, we evaluated the diagnostic performance of a neuroanatomical pattern classification method in the discrimination between psychotic major depressive disorder (MDD), bipolar I disorder (BD-I), and healthy controls (HC) using a homogenous sample of patients at an early course of their illness. Twenty-three cases of first-episode psychotic mania (BD-I) and 19 individuals with a first episode of psychotic MDD whose diagnosis remained stable during 1 year of followup underwent 1.5T MRI at baseline. A previously validated multivariate classifier based on support vector machine (SVM) was employed and measures of diagnostic performance were obtained for the discrimination between each diagnostic group and subsamples of age- and gender-matched controls recruited in the same neighborhood of the patients. Based on T1-weighted images only, the SVM-classifier afforded poor discrimination in all 3 pairwise comparisons: BD-I versus HC; MDD versus HC; and BD-I versus MDD. Thus, at the population level and using structural MRI only, we failed to achieve good discrimination between BD-I, psychotic MDD, and HC in this proof of concept study.

Stressful events can have both short- and long-term effects on the brain. Our recent investigation identified short-term white matter integrity (WMI) changes in 30 subjects soon after the Japanese earthquake. Our findings suggested that lower WMI in the right anterior cingulum (Cg) was a pre-existing vulnerability factor and increased WMI in the left anterior Cg and uncinate fasciculus (Uf) after the earthquake was an acquired sign of postearthquake distress. However, the long-term effects on WMI remained unclear. Here, we examined the 1-year WMI changes in 25 subjects to clarify long-term effects on the WMI. We found differential FAs in the right anterior Cg, bilateral Uf, left superior longitudinal fasciculus (SLF), and left thalamus, suggesting that synaptic enhancement and shrinkage were long-term effects. Additionally, the correlation between psychological measures related to postearthquake distress and the degree of WMI alternation in the right anterior Cg and the left Uf led us to speculate that temporal WMI changes in some subjects with emotional distress occurred soon after the disaster. We hypothesized that dynamic WMI changes predict a better prognosis, whereas persistently lower WMI is a marker of cognitive dysfunction, implying the development of anxiety disorders.

Acute occlusion of middle cerebral artery (MCA) leads to severe brain swelling and to a malignant, often fatal syndrome. The authors summarize the current knowledge about such a condition and review the main surgical issues involved. Decompressive hemicraniectomy keeps being a valid option in accurately selected patients.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor deficits accompanying degeneration of substantia nigra pars compactor (SNc) neurons. Although familial forms of the disease exist, the cause of sporadic PD is unknown. Symptomatic treatments are available for PD, but there are no disease modifying therapies. While the neurodegenerative processes in PD may be multifactorial, this paper will review the evidence that prooxidant iron elevation in the SNc is an invariable feature of sporadic and familial PD forms, participates in the disease mechanism, and presents as a tractable target for a disease modifying therapy.
Recently, substances possessing antioxidant can prevent cataractogenesis of diabetic cataract. Therefore, this study was carried out to determine the anticataract effect of Zea mays L. (purple waxy corn), a flavonoids rich plant, in experimental diabetic cataract. Enucleated rat lenses were incubated in artificial aqueous humor containing 55 mM glucose with various concentrations of Zea mays L. (purple waxy corn) ranging between 2, 10, and 50 mg/mL at room temperature for 72 h. At the end of the incubation period, the evaluation of lens opacification, MDA level, and the activities of SOD, CAT, GPx, and AR in lens were performed. The results showed that both medium and high doses of extract decreased lens opacity together with the decreased MDA level. In addition, medium dose of extract increased GPx activity while the high dose decreased AR activity. No other significant changes were observed. The purple waxy corn seeds extract is the potential candidate to protect against diabetic cataract. The mechanism of action may occur via the decreased oxidative stress and the suppression of AR. However, further research in vivo is still essential.
In addition to increased morbidity and mortality caused by respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, air pollution may also negatively affect the brain and contribute to central nervous system diseases. Air pollution is a mixture comprised of several components, of which ultrafine particulate matter (UFPM; &lt;100 nm) is of much concern, as these particles can enter the circulation and distribute to most organs, including the brain. A major constituent of ambient UFPM is represented by traffic-related air pollution, mostly ascribed to diesel exhaust (DE). Human epidemiological studies and controlled animal studies have shown that exposure to air pollution may lead to neurotoxicity. In addition to a variety of behavioral abnormalities, two prominent effects caused by air pollution are oxidative stress and neuroinflammation, which are seen in both humans and animals and are confirmed by in vitro studies. Among factors which can affect neurotoxic outcomes, age is considered the most relevant. Human and animal studies suggest that air pollution (and DE) may cause developmental neurotoxicity and may contribute to the etiology of neurodevelopmental disorders, including autistic spectrum disorders. In addition, air pollution exposure has been associated with increased expression of markers of neurodegenerative disease pathologies.

MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) is a substituted amphetamine and popular drug of abuse. Its mood-enhancing short-term effects may prompt its consumption under stress. Clinical studies indicate that MDMA treatment may mitigate the symptoms of stress disorders such as posttraumatic stress syndrome (PTSD). On the other hand, repeated administration of MDMA results in persistent deficits in markers of serotonergic (5-HT) nerve terminals that have been viewed as indicative of 5-HT neurotoxicity. Exposure to chronic stress has been shown to augment MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxicity. Here, we examine the transcriptional responses in the hippocampus to MDMA treatment of control rats and rats exposed to chronic stress. MDMA altered the expression of genes that regulate unfolded protein binding, protein folding, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity, and neuropeptide signaling. In stressed rats, the gene expression profile in response to MDMA was altered to affect sensory processing and responses to tissue damage in nerve sheaths. Subsequent treatment with MDMA also markedly altered the genetic responses to stress such that the stress-induced downregulation of genes related to the circadian rhythm was reversed. The data support the view that MDMA-induced transcriptional responses accompany the persistent effects of this drug on neuronal structure/function. In addition, MDMA treatment alters the stress-induced transcriptional signature.


Microfluidics offers unique ways of handling and manipulating microorganisms, which has particularly benefited Caenorhabditis elegans research. Optics plays a major role in these microfluidic platforms, not only as a read-out for the biological systems of interest but also as a vehicle for applying perturbations to biological systems. Here, we describe different areas of research in C. elegans developmental biology and behavior neuroscience enabled by microfluidics combined with the optical components. In particular, we highlight the diversity of optical tools and methods in use and the strategies implemented in microfluidics to make the devices compatible with optical techniques. We also offer some thoughts on future challenges in adapting advancements in optics to microfluidic platforms.
The synthesis of a novel series of dopamine receptor agonists are described as well as their in vitro potency and efficacy on dopamine D and D receptors. This series was designed from pergolide and (4aR,10aR)-1-propyl-1,2,3,4,4a,5,10,10a-octahydro-benzo[g]quinolin-6-ol (PHBQ) and resulted in the synthesis of (2R,4aR,10aR)-2-methylsulfanylmethyl-4-propyl-3,4,4a,5,10,10a-hexahydro-2H-naphtho[2,3-b][1,4]oxazin-9-ol (compound 27), which has a D and D receptor profile similar to that of the most recently approved drug for Parkinson's disease, rotigotine.
The identification of the novel, selective, orally bioavailable Sortilin inhibitor AF38469 is described. Structure-activity relationships and syntheses are reported, along with an X-ray crystal structure of the sortilin-AF38469 protein-inhibitor complex.
Isoxazole-1,4-dihydropyridines (IDHPs) were tethered to fluorescent moieties using double activation via a lanthanide assisted Weinreb amidation. IDHP-fluorophore conjugate 3c exhibits the highest binding to date for IDHPs at the multidrug-resistance transporter (MDR-1), and IDHP-fluorophore conjugates 3c and 7 distribute selectively in SH-SY5Y cells. A homology model for IDHP binding at MDR-1 is presented which represents our current working hypothesis.
In this Letter, we describe a chemical lead optimization campaign starting from a novel, weak 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor positive allosteric modulator (PAM) hit from a HTS screen. Exploration of the structure-activity relationships for 7 PAM potency, intrinsic hepatic clearance, the structure-property relationships for lipophilicity, and thermodynamic solubility, led to the identification of Lu AF58801: a potent, orally available, brain penetrant PAM of the 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, showing efficacy in a novel object recognition task in rats treated subchronically with phencyclidine (PCP).








Insomnia persistently affects the quality and quantity of sleep. Currently approved treatments for insomnia primarily target -aminobutyric acid-A (GABA-A) receptor signalling and include benzodiazepines and GABA-A receptor modulators. These drugs are used to address this sleep disorder, but have the potential for side effects such as tolerance and dependence, making them less attractive as maintenance therapy. Forward and reverse genetic approaches in animals have implicated orexin signalling (also referred to as hypocretin signalling) in the control of vigilance and sleep/wake states. Screening for orexin receptor antagonists using in vitro and in vivo methods in animals has identified compounds that block one or other of the orexin receptors (single or dual orexin receptor antagonists [SORAs and DORAs], respectively) in animals and humans. SORAs have primarily been used as probes to further elucidate the roles of the individual orexin receptors, while a number of DORAs have progressed to clinical development as pharmaceutical candidates for insomnia. The DORA almorexant demonstrated significant improvements in a number of clinically relevant sleep parameters in animal models and in patients with insomnia but its development was halted. SB-649868 and suvorexant have demonstrated efficacy and tolerability in Phase II and III trials respectively. Furthermore, suvorexant is currently under review by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of insomnia. Based on the publication of recent non-clinical and clinical data, orexin receptor antagonists potentially represent a targeted, effective and well-tolerated new class of medications for insomnia.
Maltreatment in childhood affects mental health over the life course. New research shows that early life experiences alter the genome in a way that can be measured in peripheral blood samples decades later. These findings suggest a new strategy for exploring gene-environment interactions and open opportunities for translational epigenomic research.






Discourse comprehension is a hallmark of human social behaviour and refers to the act of interpreting a written or spoken message by constructing mental representations that integrate incoming language with prior knowledge and experience. Here, we report a human lesion study (n = 145) that investigates the neural mechanisms underlying discourse comprehension (measured by the Discourse Comprehension Test) and systematically examine its relation to a broad range of psychological factors, including psychometric intelligence (measured by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale), emotional intelligence (measured by the Mayer, Salovey, Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test), and personality traits (measured by the Neuroticism-Extraversion-Openness Personality Inventory). Scores obtained from these factors were submitted to voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping to elucidate their neural substrates. Stepwise regression analyses revealed that working memory and extraversion reliably predict individual differences in discourse comprehension: higher working memory scores and lower extraversion levels predict better discourse comprehension performance. Lesion mapping results indicated that these convergent variables depend on a shared network of frontal and parietal regions, including white matter association tracts that bind these areas into a coordinated system. The observed findings motivate an integrative framework for understanding the neural foundations of discourse comprehension, suggesting that core elements of discourse processing emerge from a distributed network of brain regions that support specific competencies for executive and social function.
The volitional impairments of alien limb and apraxia are a defining feature of the corticobasal syndrome, but a limited understanding of their neurocognitive aetiology has hampered progress towards effective treatments. Here we combined several key methods to investigate the mechanism of impairments in voluntary action in corticobasal syndrome. We used a quantitative measure of awareness of action that is based on well-defined processes of motor control; structural and functional anatomical information; and evaluation against the clinical volitional disorders of corticobasal syndrome. In patients and healthy adults we measured 'intentional binding', the perceived temporal attraction between voluntary actions and their sensory effects. Patients showed increased binding of the perceived time of actions towards their effects. This increase correlated with the severity of alien limb and apraxia, which we suggest share a core deficit in motor control processes, through reduced precision in voluntary action signals. Structural neuroimaging analyses showed the behavioural variability in patients was related to changes in grey matter volume in pre-supplementary motor area, and changes in its underlying white matter tracts to prefrontal cortex. Moreover, changes in functional connectivity at rest between the pre-supplementary motor area and prefrontal cortex were proportional to changes in binding. These behavioural, structural and functional results converge to reveal the frontal network for altered awareness and control of voluntary action in corticobasal syndrome, and provide candidate markers to evaluate new therapies.
Although alterations in resting-state functional connectivity between brain regions have previously been reported in Parkinson's disease, the spatial organization of these changes remains largely unknown. Here, we longitudinally studied brain network topology in Parkinson's disease in relation to clinical measures of disease progression, using magnetoencephalography and concepts from graph theory. We characterized whole-brain functional networks by means of a standard graph analysis approach, measuring clustering coefficient and shortest path length, as well as the construction of a minimum spanning tree, a novel approach that allows a unique and unbiased characterization of brain networks. We observed that brain networks in early stage untreated patients displayed lower local clustering with preserved path length in the delta frequency band in comparison to controls. Longitudinal analysis over a 4-year period in a larger group of patients showed a progressive decrease in local clustering in multiple frequency bands together with a decrease in path length in the alpha2 frequency band. In addition, minimum spanning tree analysis revealed a decentralized and less integrated network configuration in early stage, untreated Parkinson's disease that also progressed over time. Moreover, the longitudinal changes in network topology identified with both techniques were associated with deteriorating motor function and cognitive performance. Our results indicate that impaired local efficiency and network decentralization are very early features of Parkinson's disease that continue to progress over time, together with reductions in global efficiency. As these network changes appear to reflect clinically relevant phenomena, they hold promise as markers of disease progression.
High amyloid has been associated with substantial episodic memory decline over 18 and 36 months in healthy older adults and individuals with mild cognitive impairment. However, the nature and magnitude of amyloid-related memory and non-memory change from the preclinical to the clinical stages of Alzheimer's disease has not been evaluated over the same time interval. Healthy older adults (n = 320), individuals with mild cognitive impairment (n = 57) and individuals with Alzheimer's disease (n = 36) enrolled in the Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle study underwent at least one positron emission tomography neuroimaging scan for amyloid. Cognitive assessments were conducted at baseline, and 18- and 36-month follow-up assessments. Compared with amyloid-negative healthy older adults, amyloid-positive healthy older adults, and amyloid-positive individuals with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease showed moderate and equivalent decline in verbal and visual episodic memory over 36 months (d's = 0.47-0.51). Relative to amyloid-negative healthy older adults, amyloid-positive healthy older adults showed no decline in non-memory functions, but amyloid-positive individuals with mild cognitive impairment showed additional moderate decline in language, attention and visuospatial function (d's = 0.47-1.12), and amyloid-positive individuals with Alzheimer's disease showed large decline in all aspects of memory and non-memory function (d's = 0.73-2.28). Amyloid negative individuals with mild cognitive impairment did not show any cognitive decline over 36 months. When non-demented individuals (i.e. healthy older adults and adults with mild cognitive impairment) were further dichotomized, high amyloid-positive non-demented individuals showed a greater rate of decline in episodic memory and language when compared with low amyloid positive non-demented individuals. Memory decline does not plateau with increasing disease severity, and decline in non-memory functions increases in amyloid-positive individuals with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. The combined detection of amyloid positivity and objectively-defined decline in memory are reliable indicators of early Alzheimer's disease, and the detection of decline in non-memory functions in amyloid-positive individuals with mild cognitive impairment may assist in determining the level of disease severity in these individuals. Further, these results suggest that grouping amyloid data into at least two categories of abnormality may be useful in determining the disease risk level in non-demented individuals.
John Hughlings Jackson (1835-1911) created a science of brain function that, in scope and profundity, is among the great scientific discoveries of the 19th century. It is interesting that the magnitude of his achievement is not completely recognized even among his ardent admirers. Although thousands of practitioners around the world use the clinical applications of his science every day, the principles from which bedside neurology is derived have broader consequences-for modern and future science-that remain unrecognized and unexploited. This paper summarizes the scientific formalism that created modern neurology, demonstrates how its direct implications affect a current area of neuroscientific research, and indicates how Hughlings Jackson's ideas form a path toward a novel solution to an important open problem of the brain and mind.


The GPR30 is a novel estrogen receptor (ER) that is a candidate membrane ER based on its binding to 17 estradiol and its rapid signaling properties such as activation of the extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway. Its distribution in the mouse limbic system predicts a role for this receptor in the estrogenic modulation of anxiety behaviors in the mouse. A previous study showed that chronic administration of a selective agonist to the GPR30 receptor, G-1, in the female rat can improve spatial memory, suggesting that GPR30 plays a role in hippocampal-dependent cognition. In this study, we investigated the effect of a similar chronic administration of G-1 on behaviors that denote anxiety in adult ovariectomized female mice, using the elevated plus maze (EPM) and the open field test as well as the activation of the ERK pathway in the hippocampus. Although estradiol benzoate had no effect on behaviors in the EPM or the open field, G-1 had an anxiolytic effect solely in the open field that was independent of ERK signaling in either the ventral or dorsal hippocampus. Such an anxiolytic effect may underlie the ability of G-1 to increase spatial memory, by acting on the hippocampus.


Numerous methods of T cell depletion lead to impairment of learning and memory function in mice. While adoptive transfer of whole splenocytes rescues learning behavior impairments, the precise sub-population and antigenic specificity of the T cells mediating the rescue remains unknown. Using several transgenic mouse models in combination with adoptive transfers, we demonstrate the necessity of an antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell compartment in normal spatial learning and memory, as measured by the Morris water maze (MWM). Moreover, transfer of a monoclonal T cell population reactive to the central nervous system (CNS) antigen, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), was sufficient to improve cognitive task performance in otherwise impaired OTII mice, raising the possibility that the antigen-specificity requirement of pro-cognitive T cells may be directed against CNS-derived self-antigens.





Auditory processing is presumed to be influenced by cognitive processes - including attentional control - in a top-down manner. In bilinguals, activation of both languages during daily communication hones inhibitory skills, which subsequently bolster attentional control. We hypothesize that the heightened attentional demands of bilingual communication strengthens connections between cognitive (i.e., attentional control) and auditory processing, leading to greater across-trial consistency in the auditory evoked response (i.e., neural consistency) in bilinguals. To assess this, we collected passively-elicited auditory evoked responses to the syllable [da] in adolescent Spanish-English bilinguals and English monolinguals and separately obtained measures of attentional control and language ability. Bilinguals demonstrated enhanced attentional control and more consistent brainstem and cortical responses. In bilinguals, but not monolinguals, brainstem consistency tracked with language proficiency and attentional control. We interpret these enhancements in neural consistency as the outcome of strengthened attentional control that emerged from experience communicating in two languages.
The current study investigated sensorimotor involvement in the processing of verbs describing actions performed with the hands, feet, or no body part. Actual movements were used to identify neuromagnetic sources for hand and foot actions. These sources constrained the analysis of verb processing. While hand and foot sources picked up activation in all three verb conditions, peak amplitudes showed an interaction of source and verb condition at 200 ms after word onset, thereby reflecting effector-specificity. Specifically, hand verbs elicited significantly higher peak amplitudes than foot verbs in hand sources. Our results are in line with theories of embodied cognition that assume an involvement of sensorimotor areas in early stages of lexico-semantic processing, even for single words without a semantic or motor task.
Cerebral hypoperfusion or aging often results into the disturbances of cholesterol and lipoprotein, which have been tightly associated with numerous neurological and psychiatric diseases, such as vascular dementia. The pathway of liver X receptor- (LXR-)/retinoic X receptor- (RXR-)/ABCA1 plays a vital role in lipoprotein metabolism. However, there were no reports about the relationship between the signal molecules of the pathway and lipoprotein homeostasis in cerebral hypoperfusion models. Therefore, we aimed to detect the expression of the pathway molecules in the aging rat models of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and to explore its underlying mechanism. The model with cerebral hypoperfusion was established by ligating of the bilateral common carotid arteries (2VO). The temporal blood flow in the model rats was significantly decreased 14 d, 21 d and 28 d after 2VO compared with the control. The serum levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and total cholesterol (TC) were reached a peak at 14 d, then, they were gradually decreased. The changes of LXR-, RXR-, ABCA1 and apolipoprotein A1 (apo A1) of the pathway were consistent with the changes of HDL and TC. We conclude that LXR-/RXR-/ABCA1 and downstream genes apo A1 undergo dynamic changes during the process of cerebral hypoperfusion. The LXR-/RXR-/ABCA1 mediated apo A1 cholesterol may play a protective effect, and the effect only exists in a certain period of time.
Arcuate nucleus of hypothalamus (ARH) is the core component in the regulation circuits of food intake and energy homeostasis. ARH projections to other parts of the hypothalamus and to extrahypothalamic areas are established in the postnatal two weeks, which is a pivotal stage for individual development. -Catenin, a cell adhesion protein and also the mediator of canonical Wnt signaling pathway, plays an important role in embryonic development and adult homeostasis. However, whether -catenin plays any roles in the development of hypothalamus is not clear. Here, we report that perinatal conditional knockout of -catenin by CamKII-Cre in forebrain reduces body weight gain from P8 and dramatically shortens life span. Quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization results showed the expression of NPY mRNA in the ARH of -catenin CKO mice at P15 is obviously increased compared with that of littermate controls, whereas the expression of POMC mRNA is significantly decreased, which suggested the reduction of postnatal body weight gain might be due to the deficiency of food intake. Together, -catenin might play an important role in the regulation of food intake and postnatal body weight gain probably through affecting the development of ARH circuits.
Allicin, a small molecule that is responsible for the typical smell and most of the functions of garlic, possesses a broad spectrum of pharmacological activities and is considered to have therapeutic potential in many pathologic conditions. In the present study, we investigated the potential protective effect of allicin in an in vitro model of traumatic brain injury (TBI) using primary cultured rat cortical neurons. We found that allicin treatment significantly reduced mechanical trauma-induced lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and inhibited apoptotic neuronal death in a dose-dependent manner. These protective effects were observed even if allicin treatment was delayed to 2h after injury. Allicin significantly decreased the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and increased the phosphorylation of endothelial NOS (eNOS) but had no effect on neuronal NOS (nNOS) expression. Allicin-induced protection in cortical neurons was augmented by iNOS and nNOS antagonists and was partly reversed by blocking eNOS phosphorylation. In addition, allicin treatment inhibited the TBI-induced activation of ERK and further enhanced the phosphorylation of Akt in TBI-injured neurons. The Akt inhibitor LY294002 attenuated the allicin-induced increase in eNOS expression and phosphorylation, whereas the ERK inhibitor PD98059 had opposite effects on the expression of iNOS and eNOS. Pretreatment with LY294002 or PD98059 partly prevented or further enhanced allicin-induced neuroprotection, respectively. Collectively, these data demonstrate that allicin treatment may be an effective therapeutic strategy for traumatic neuronal injury and that the potential underlying mechanism involves Akt- and ERK-mediated regulation of NOS pathways.
Zinc is an allosteric modulator of glycine receptor function, enhancing the effects of glycine at nM to low M concentrations, and inhibiting its effects at higher concentrations. Because of zinc's high potency at the glycine receptor, there exists a possibility that effects attributed solely to exogenously-applied glycine in fact contain an undetected contribution of zinc acting as an allosteric modulator. We found that glycine solutions made up in standard buffers and using deionized distilled water produced effects that could be decreased by the zinc chelator tricine. This phenomenon was observed in three different vials tested and persisted even if vials were extensively washed, suggesting the zinc was probably present in the buffer constituents. In addition, polystyrene, but not glass, pipets bore a contaminant that enhanced glycine receptor function and that could also be antagonized by tricine. Our findings suggest that without checking for this effect using a chelator such as tricine, one cannot assume that responses elicited by glycine applied alone are not necessarily also partially due to some level of allosteric modulation by zinc.
Substance P (SP) levels are closely related with the pathogenesis of depression. Recent work has focused on antidepressive effect of substance P receptor antagonist (SPA), however, its action site and mechanism remain largely unresolved. Our previous results showed that the lateral habenula (LHb) plays a key role in the pathogenesis of depression. The current study investigated the effects of SPA microinjected into LHb on the behavioral responses of two rat models that exhibit depression-like behavior. To produce adult rats that exhibit depression-like behavior, rats were either exposed to chronic mild stress (CMS), or chronically administered clomipramine (CLI), a tricyclic antidepressant, during the neonatal state of life. The forced-swimming test (FST) was used to evaluate behavioral responses. Furthermore, we measured serotonin (5-HT) levels in dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) using microdialysis. The FST showed a decreased immobility time and an increased climbing time after SPA injection into the LHb of depression-like behavior rats. In addition, 5-HT levels in DRN increased after SPA was microinjected into LHb of the rats that exhibited depression-like behavior. This study demonstrates that LHb mediates antidepressive effect of SPA by increasing 5-HT levels in the DRN, suggesting that the LHb may be a potential target of antidepressant.
In this study we tested the hypothesis whether a lasting change in the excitability of cortical output circuits can be obtained in healthy humans by combining a peripheral nerve stimulation during a concomitant depolarization and/or hyperpolarization of motor cortex. To reach this aim we combined two different neurophysiological techniques each of them able to induce a lasting increase of cortical excitability by them self: namely median nerve repetitive electrical stimulation (rEPNS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). Ten normal young volunteers were enrolled in the present study. All subjects underwent five different protocols of stimulation: (1, 2) tDCS alone (anodal or cathodal); (3) Sham tDCS plus rEPNS; (4, 5) anodal or cathodal tDCS plus rEPNS. The baseline MEP amplitude from abductor pollicis brevis (APB) and flexor carpi radialis (FCR) muscle, the FCR H-reflex were compared with that obtained immediately after and 10, 20, 30, 60 min after the stimulation protocol. Anodal tDCS alone induced a significant transient increase of MEP amplitude immediately after the end of stimulation while anodal tDCS + rEPNS determined MEP changes which persisted for up 60 min. Cathodal tDCS alone induced a significant reduction of MEP amplitude immediately after the end of stimulation while cathodal tDCS + rEPNS prolonged the effects for up to 60 min. Sham tDCS + rEPNS did not induce significant changes in corticospinal excitability. Anodal or cathodal tDCS + rEPNS and sham tDCS + rEPNS caused a lasting facilitation of H-reflex. These findings suggest that by providing afferent input to the motor cortex while its excitability level is increased or decreased by tDCS may be a highly effective means for inducing an enduring bi-directional plasticity. The mechanism of this protocol may be complex, involving either cortical and spinal after effects.






The clinical use of chronic electrode implants for measurement or stimulation of neuronal activity has increased over the past decade with the advent of deep brain stimulation and the use of brain-computer interfaces. However, despite the wide-spread application of electrode implants, their chronic use is still limited by technical difficulties. Many of the reported issues, ranging from short-circuits to loss of signal due to increased electrical impedance, may be traced back to the reaction of the cortical tissue to the implanted devices: the foreign body response (FBR). This response consists of several phases that ultimately result in neuronal loss and the formation of a dense glial sheath that encapsulates the implant. Empirical evidence suggests that reducing the FBR has a positive effect on the electrical properties of implants, which can potentially expand their clinical use by improving their chronic usability. The primary focus of this work is to review the consequences of the FBR and recent developments that can be considered to control and limit its development. We will discuss how the choice of device material and electrode-architecture influences the tissue reaction, as well as modifications that allow for less stiff implants, increase electrode conductivity, or improve the implant-tissue integration. Several promising biological solutions include the local release of anti-inflammatory compounds to weaken the initial inflammatory phase of the FBR, as well as methods to diminish the negative effects of the glial sheath on neuronal regrowth.

Using optimized voxel-based morphometry, we performed grey matter density analyses on 59 age-, sex- and intelligence-matched young adults with three distinct, progressive levels of musical training intensity or expertise. Structural brain adaptations in musicians have been repeatedly demonstrated in areas involved in auditory perception and motor skills. However, musical activities are not confined to auditory perception and motor performance, but are entangled with higher-order cognitive processes. In consequence, neuronal systems involved in such higher-order processing may also be shaped by experience-driven plasticity. We modelled expertise as a three-level regressor to study possible linear relationships of expertise with grey matter density. The key finding of this study resides in a functional dissimilarity between areas exhibiting increase versus decrease of grey matter as a function of musical expertise. Grey matter density increased with expertise in areas known for their involvement in higher-order cognitive processing: right fusiform gyrus (visual pattern recognition), right mid orbital gyrus (tonal sensitivity), left inferior frontal gyrus (syntactic processing, executive function, working memory), left intraparietal sulcus (visuo-motor coordination) and bilateral posterior cerebellar Crus II (executive function, working memory) and in auditory processing: left Heschl's gyrus. Conversely, grey matter density decreased with expertise in bilateral perirolandic and striatal areas that are related to sensorimotor function, possibly reflecting high automation of motor skills. Moreover, a multiple regression analysis evidenced that grey matter density in the right mid orbital area and the inferior frontal gyrus predicted accuracy in detecting fine-grained incongruities in tonal music.
Cholinergic structures in the arm of the cephalopod Octopus vulgaris were studied by immunohistochemistry using specific antisera for two types (common and peripheral) of acetylcholine synthetic enzyme choline acetyltransferase (ChAT): antiserum raised against the rat common type ChAT (cChAT), which is cross-reactive with molluscan cChAT, and antiserum raised against the rat peripheral type ChAT (pChAT), which has been used to delineate peripheral cholinergic structures in vertebrates, but not previously in invertebrates. Western blot analysis of octopus extracts revealed a single pChAT-positive band, suggesting that pChAT antiserum is cross-reactive with an octopus counterpart of rat pChAT. In immunohistochemistry, only neuronal structures of the octopus arm were stained by cChAT and pChAT antisera, although the pattern of distribution clearly differed between the two antisera. cChAT-positive varicose nerve fibers were observed in both the cerebrobrachial tract and neuropil of the axial nerve cord, while pChAT-positive varicose fibers were detected only in the neuropil of the axial nerve cord. After epitope retrieval, pChAT-positive neuronal cells and their processes became visible in all ganglia of the arm, including the axial and intramuscular nerve cords, and in ganglia of suckers. Moreover, pChAT-positive structures also became detectable in nerve fibers connecting the different ganglia, in smooth nerve fibers among muscle layers and dermal connective tissues, and in sensory cells of the suckers. These results suggest that the octopus arm has two types of cholinergic nerves: cChAT-positive nerves from brain ganglia and pChAT-positive nerves that are intrinsic to the arm.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is used to detect tissue pathology. In Alzheimer's disease (AD) research, DTI has been used to elucidate differences in disease stages and to track progression over time and clinical severity. Many of these studies have identified the fornix as particularly vulnerable in the early stages of pathology associated with memory decline in prodromal AD. Emerging research suggests principal tensor components, axial (DA) and radial (DR) diffusivity, are more sensitive to underlying tissue pathology than are mean diffusivity (MD) and fractional anisotropy (FA). Given the established regionally specific tissue decline in MCI, we examined components of the full diffusion tensor (MD, FA, DR, and DA) for sensitivity to regional pathology associated with specific memory deficits in 18 individuals with MCI. We investigated multiple regions of interest, including fornix, temporal stem, and control regions for association with severity of impairment on multiple memory measures, including a type of neuropsychological task shown to be particularly sensitive to early memory decline in MCI. Better paired associate learning was selectively associated with lower DA ( = -0.663, p = 0.003), but not with DR, MD, or FA of the temporal stems. Conversely, better paired associate learning was associated with lower DR ( = -0.523, p = 0.026), higher FA ( = 0.498, p = 0.036), and lower MD ( = -0.513, p = 0.030), but not DA in the fornix. No association was found for control regions, or for control cognitive measures. These findings suggest disparate pathology of temporal stems and fornix white matter in association with early memory impairment in MCI. Further, they highlight the methodological importance of evaluating the full tensor, rather than only summative metrics in research using DTI.
We have mapped the motor neurons (MNs) supplying the major hindlimb muscles of transgenic (C57/BL6J-ChAT-EGFP) and wild-type (C57/BL6J) mice. The fluorescent retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold was injected into 19 hindlimb muscles. Consecutive transverse spinal cord sections were harvested, the MNs counted, and the MN columns reconstructed in 3D. Three longitudinal MN columns were identified. The dorsolateral column extends from L4 to L6 and consists of MNs innervating the crural muscles and the foot. The ventrolateral column extends from L1 to L6 and accommodates MNs supplying the iliopsoas, gluteal, and quadriceps femoris muscles. The middle part of the ventral horn hosts the central MN column, which extends between L2 and L6 and consists of MNs for the thigh adductor, hamstring, and quadratus femoris muscles. Within these longitudinal columns, the arrangement of the different MN groups reflects their somatotopic organization. MNs innervating muscles developing from the dorsal (e.g., quadriceps) and ventral muscle mass (e.g., hamstring) are situated in the lateral and medial part of the ventral gray, respectively. MN pools belonging to proximal muscles (e.g., quadratus femoris and iliopsoas) are situated ventral to those supplying more distal ones (e.g., plantar muscles). Finally, MNs innervating flexors (e.g., posterior crural muscles) are more medial than those belonging to extensors of the same joint (e.g., anterior crural muscles). These data extend and modify the MN maps in the recently published atlas of the mouse spinal cord and may help when assessing neuronal loss associated with MN diseases.
The importance of the hippocampus for declarative memory processes is firmly established. Nevertheless, the issue of a correlation between declarative memory performance and hippocampal volume in healthy subjects still remains controversial. The aim of the present study was to investigate this relationship in more detail. For this purpose, 50 healthy young male participants performed the California Verbal Learning Test. Hippocampal volume was assessed by manual segmentation of high-resolution 3D magnetic resonance images. We found a significant positive correlation between putatively hippocampus-dependent memory measures like short-delay retention, long-delay retention and discriminability and percent hippocampal volume. No significant correlation with measures related to executive processes was found. In addition, percent amygdala volume was not related to any of these measures. Our data advance previous findings reported in studies of brain-damaged individuals in a large and homogeneous young healthy sample and are important for theories on the neural basis of episodic memory.
A gulf exists between cingulate area designations in human neurocytology and those used in rodent brain atlases with a major underpinning of the former being midcingulate cortex (MCC). The present study used images extracted from the Franklin and Paxinos mouse atlas and Paxinos and Watson rat atlas to demonstrate areas comprising MCC and modifications of anterior cingulate (ACC) and retrosplenial cortices. The laminar architecture not available in the atlases is also provided for each cingulate area. Both mouse and rat have a MCC with neurons in all layers that are larger than in ACC and layer Va has particularly prominent neurons and reduced neuron densities. An undifferentiated ACC area 33 lies along the rostral callosal sulcus in rat but not in mouse and area 32 has dorsal and ventral subdivisions with the former having particularly large pyramidal neurons in layer Vb. Both mouse and rat have anterior and posterior divisions of retrosplenial areas 29c and 30, although their cytology is different in rat and mouse. Maps of the rodent cingulate cortices provide for direct comparisons with each region in the human including MCC and it is significant that rodents do not have a posterior cingulate region composed of areas 23 and 31 like the human. It is concluded that rodents and primates, including humans, possess a MCC and this homology along with those in ACC and retrosplenial cortices permit scientists inspired by human considerations to test hypotheses on rodent models of human diseases.
New neurotechnologies for modulating brain functions are becoming increasingly powerful and applicable to diverse diseases, but raise new questions for clinicians, ethicists, policy makers, and laymen. This issue of Brain Topography gathers several papers exploring the clinical and ethical implications of several invasive and noninvasive neuromodulation approaches. The opportunities and challenges associated with the emergence of neuro-engineering solutions to brain research and brain repair require a close dialogue between multiple disciplines, as well as open discussion with the general public.
Interictal or ictal events in partial epilepsies may project on scalp EEG contralaterally to the side of the epileptogenic lesion. Such paradoxical lateralization can be observed in case of para-sagittal generators, and is likely due to the spatial orientation of the generator, presenting an oblique projection towards the midline. We present here a case of medial occipital epilepsy investigated using EEG, MEG and stereoelectroencephalography (SEEG). MRI displayed a focal cortical dysplasia in the superior margin of the right calcarine fissure. SEEG demonstrated bilateral medial occipital interictal spikes, with an inversion of polarity at the level of the lesion and a contralateral propagation occurring in 10ms. Interictal iterative EEG cartographies showed a large posterior field, with a maximum contralateral to the initial generator (EEG paradoxical lateralization). With the same number of channels, interictal iterative MEG cartographies were more precise and more complex than EEG ones, indicating an onset accurately lateralized. A few milliseconds later, MEG cartographies were quadripolar, thus indicating two homotopic active generators. These MEG and EEG cartographies have been reproduced using BESA dipole simulator. Relative merits of MEG and EEG are still debated. With 151 channels, MEG source localizations indicated the right medial occipital area, as demonstrated by SEEG. An investigation with a corresponding number of EEG channels was not performed. After a down sampling to 64 sensors, this precision was lost. MEG and EEG source localization results, both with 64 channels, were quite comparable, indicating both medial occipital areas. However, a careful analysis of MEG/EEG iterative cartographies, performed with the same number of channels in both modalities, demonstrated that, in this configuration, MEG sensitivity was superior to the EEG one, allowing separating two medial occipital sources, characterized in SEEG by a time delay of 10ms.
We treated a case of recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) with bevacizumab and assessed its effect biologically. A 55-year-old man with a left frontal lobe GBM was experiencing recurrence 7months postoperation. We administered bevacizumab concomitant with temozolomide (TMZ). Follow-up magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed dramatic but temporal tumor reduction; however, the patient died of re-recurrent disease 6months after beginning bevacizumab. We obtained an autopsy and analyzed the detailed molecular change. In the autopsy specimen, the quantity of microvessels was significantly reduced. Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) 1 and VEGFR2 were downregulated, most likely due to a negative feedback mechanism by blocking of VEGF signaling. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and membrane-type 1 MMP were upregulated, resulting in the higher activation of MMP-2 in the autopsy specimen. MIB-1 staining index and phosphorylation levels of p44/42-mitogen-activated protein kinase did not change, whereas phosphorylated protein kinase B (Akt) was decreased in the autopsy specimen, suggesting compensation and/or amplification of other proliferative signaling pathways such as suppression of apoptosis signaling. Consequently, bevacizumab might inhibit the VEGF autocrine loop, which then causes a change in molecular expression related not only to enhancement of tumor invasion but also maintenance of tumor proliferation.
Primary cortical areas for motor, sensory and sensitive functions are localized in certain areas of the brain cortex. In clinical practice, cross sectional imaging (computer tomography and magnetic resonance) is wildy used for diagnostics purpose, treatment planning and follow up of the patients. Accurate orientation in brain structures is necessary for the evaluation of radiological images. There are numerable landmark signs, which can be used for precise identification of important brain structures. In this review article, the mostly used anatomical landmarks are described and shown on the cross sectional images (magnetic resonance imaging) (Fig. 14, Ref. 25).


Abstract available from the publisher.
Abstract available from the publisher.
Abstract available from the publisher.

Despite the mortality and morbidity burden associated with cardiovascular disease in women, there is insufficient knowledge regarding gender specificities in both biomedical and psychosocial domains. Gender differences in both pathophysiology and biological risk factors might explain distinct prevalence rates, symptom profiles, and even medical outcomes, but gender-related specificities regarding psychosocial risk factors might further explain this. The authors review the key issues on this topic and outline suggestions for future research. Ultimately, a better understanding of this matter will translate not only into improved clinical management of female patients, but also gender-specific strategies in the prevention of cardiovascular disease.
This case report describes the orthodontic treatment of a woman, aged 15 years, with permanent dentition, brachyfacial typology, with congenitally missing maxillary lateral incisors. Multibracket straightwire fixed appliance was used to open the space for dental implant placement, and treat the impaired occlusion. The missing lateral incisors were substituted with oral implants.
Lacunar infarction is traditionally ascribed to lipohyalinosis or microatheroma. We report the case of 40-year-old man, without traditional risk factors for ischemic stroke, who presented to the Emergency Department with recurrent episodes of transient right-sided weakness and paresthesia. Lacunar infarction was confirmed on diffusion-weighted MRI and blood tests showed a marked polycythemia. Quantitative magnetic resonance perfusion imaging demonstrated dramatically abnormal perfusion throughout both cerebral hemispheres, and transcranial Doppler revealed reduced cerebral artery velocities, both consistent with the proposed mechanism of hyperviscosity. His symptoms settled with treatment of the polycythemia and workup did not find another cause of ischemic stroke. We propose that hyperviscosity secondary to steroid-induced polycythemia caused ischemia in this case and not lipohyalinosis or microatheroma, to which lacunar disease is commonly attributed.
Here, we present a patient with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) who developed initial symptoms mimicking progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Before the development of typical CJD symptoms, functional imaging supported a diagnosis of PSP when [(123)I]-FP-CIT-SPECT showed a defect in striatal dopamine transporter binding, while [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose PET showed cortical hypometabolism suggestive of Lewy body dementia. However, the postmortem neuropathological examination was indicative of CJD only, without tau protein or Lewy body findings. This case demonstrates that CJD should be taken into account in rapidly progressing atypical cases of parkinsonism, even when functional imaging supports a diagnosis of a movement disorder.
Neurological manifestations of GPA are common, most frequently as a peripheral neuropathy. Cerebritis as a principal presentation is extremely rare. We report a patient who presented with subacute progression of ataxia, confusion, and vacant episodes. An MRI of her brain showed bilateral signal abnormalities in the cingulate and superior sagittal gyrus while a staging CT revealed a mass in the right upper lobe of the patient's lung with a satellite nodule. C-ANCA antibodies specific for PR3 at high titres were positive and a diagnosis of GPA was made. The patient was commenced on intravenous methylprednisolone followed by cyclophosphamide and responded well to treatment. GPA is a rare and treatable differential diagnosis for confused patients with acute or subacute neurological features and unusual MRI findings.
Background. Metabolic syndromes such as Wernicke's encephalopathy may present with a sudden neurological deficit, thus mimicking acute onset stroke. Due to current emphasis on rapid admission and treatment of acute stroke patients, there is a significant risk that these stroke mimics may end up being treated with thrombolysis. Rigorous clinical and radiological skills are necessary to correctly identify such metabolic stroke mimics, in order to avoid doing any harm to these patients due to the unnecessary use of thrombolysis. Patient. A 51-year-old Caucasian male was admitted to our hospital with suspicion of an acute stroke due to sudden onset dysarthria and unilateral facial nerve paresis. Clinical examination revealed confusion and dysconjugate gaze. Computed tomography (CT) including a CT perfusion (CTP) scan revealed bilateral thalamic hyperperfusion. The use of both clinical and radiological findings led to correctly diagnosing Wernicke's encephalopathy. Conclusion. The application of CTP as a standard diagnostic tool in acute stroke patients can improve the detection of stroke mimics caused by metabolic syndromes as shown in our case report.
Bilateral cortical blindness and Anton syndrome, are most commonly caused by ischaemic stroke. In this condition, patients have loss of vision but deny their blindness despite objective evidence of visual loss. We report a case of a patient with multiple cardiovascular risk factors who developed recurrent bilateral occipital lobe infarct with Anton syndrome. A suspicion of this condition should be raised when the patient has denial of blindness in the presence of clinical and radiological evidence of occipital lobe injury. Management of this condition should focus on the underlying cause, in which our patient requires secondary stroke prevention and rehabilitation.
Purpose. Myopic macular holes can be difficult to close with surgery and are frequently associated with retinal detachment. We report on a case of a macular hole in a severely myopic eye that underwent spontaneous closure. Methods. An observational case study. Results. A 55-year-old female was referred to Ophthalmology for a central scotoma and metamorphopsia in the right eye. Visual acuity was 1/20 in both eyes. Fundus examination showed loss of the foveal depression, with a small yellow ring in the center of the fovea in the right eye, and a tilted optic disc and peripapillary staphyloma bilaterally. Spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) revealed a fully developed macular hole with a rim of thickened and slightly elevated retina in the right eye. The patient refused surgery. After 4 years of follow-up, her visual acuity improved to 20/40 in the right eye, and SD-OCT revealed spontaneous sealing of the macular hole without bare retinal pigment epithelium. Conclusions. Myopic macular holes represent a challenge regarding their management, and the prognosis is often poor.
Citrobacter koseri is a rare cause of neonatal meningitis with predisposal for brain abscesses, and therefore responsible for high mortality and serious neurologic sequelae in this age group. We present the evolution and outcome of four cases of C. koseri meningitis. One of them developed brain abscesses and another one died. The cases show the bacteria's propensity for serious brain damage, despite early and adequate treatment, and the high risk of long-term neurologic complications in survivors, which imposes a close follow-up.
EphB tyrosine kinase receptors have been implicated in multiple developmental processes; however, the signaling mechanism underlying these events remains unclear. Through a triple knock-in mouse line for three neurally expressed EphBs, Sokis et al. demonstrated that EphB tyrosine kinase activity is required for axon guidance but does not influence synapse formation. This short communication highlights their study and appealing molecular approach that elucidated the functions of EphB tyrosine kinase during developmental events.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a barrier that prevents free access of blood-derived substances to the brain through the tight junctions and maintains a specialized brain environment. Circumventricular organs (CVOs) lack the typical BBB. The fenestrated vasculature of the sensory CVOs, including the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT), subfornical organ (SFO) and area postrema (AP), allows parenchyma cells to sense a variety of blood-derived information, including osmotic ones. In the present study, we utilized immunohistochemistry to examine changes in the expression of NG2 and platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRB) in the OVLT, SFO and AP of adult mice during chronic osmotic stimulation. The expression of NG2 and PDGFRB was remarkably prominent in pericytes, although these angiogenesis-associated proteins are highly expressed at pericytes of developing immature vasculature. The chronic salt loading prominently increased the expression of NG2 in the OVLT and SFO and that of PDGFRB in the OVLT, SFO and AP. The vascular permeability of low-molecular-mass tracer fluorescein isothiocyanate was increased significantly by chronic salt loading in the OVLT and SFO but not AP. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates changes in pericyte expression of NG2 and PDGFRB and vascular permeability in the sensory CVOs by chronic osmotic stimulation, indicating active participation of the vascular system in osmotic homeostasis.
Astrocyte Gq GPCR and IP3 receptor-dependent Ca(2+) elevations occur spontaneously in situ and in vivo. These events vary considerably in size, often remaining confined to small territories of astrocyte processes called &quot;microdomains&quot; and sometimes propagating over longer distances that can include the soma. It has remained unclear whether these events are driven by constitutive (basal) GPCR signaling activity, neuronal action potential-dependent or quantal vesicular release, or some combination of these mechanisms. Here, we applied manipulations to increase or inhibit neuronal vesicular neurotransmitter release together with low-level stimulation of Schaffer collaterals in acute mouse hippocampal slices in an effort to determine the mechanisms underlying spontaneous astrocyte Ca(2+) events. We found no significant change in spontaneous microdomain astrocyte Ca(2+) elevations when neuronal action potentials were significantly enhanced or blocked. The astrocyte Ca(2+) activity was also not affected by inhibitors of group I mGluRs. However, blockade of miniature neurotransmitter release using Bafilomycin A1 significantly reduced the frequency of microdomain astrocyte Ca(2+) elevations. We then tested whether astrocyte Ca(2+) microdomains can be evoked by low intensity SC stimulation. Importantly, microdomains could not be reproduced even using single, low intensity pulses to the SCs at a minimum distance from the astrocyte. Evoked astrocyte Ca(2+) responses most often included the cell soma, were reduced by group I mGluR antagonists, and were larger in size compared to spontaneous Ca(2+) microdomains. Overall, our findings suggest that spontaneous microdomain astrocyte Ca(2+) elevations are not driven by neuronal action potentials but require quantal release of neurotransmitter which cannot be replicated by stimulation of Schaffer collaterals.
Endocytic vesicle fusion is inhibited during mitosis, but the molecular pathways that mediate the inhibition remain unclear. Here we uncovered an essential role of Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) in this mechanism. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that Plk1 phosphorylates the intermediate filament protein vimentin on Ser459, which is dispensable for its filament formation but is necessary for the inhibition of endocytic vesicle fusion in mitosis. Furthermore, this mechanism is required for integrin trafficking toward the cleavage furrow during cytokinesis. Our results thus identify a novel mechanism for fusion inhibition in mitosis and implicate its role in vesicle trafficking after anaphase onset.
Major depressive disorders are common and disabling conditions associated with significant psychosocial impairment and suicide risk. At least 3-4% of all depressive individuals die by suicide. Evidence suggests that small non-coding RNAs, in particular microRNAs (miRNAs), play a critical role in major affective disorders as well as suicide. We performed a detailed review of the current literature on miRNAs and their targets in major depression and related disorders as well as suicidal behavior, with a specific focus on miR-185 and miR-491-3p, which have been suggested to participate in the pathogenesis of major depression and/or suicide. miRNAs play a fundamental role in the development of the brain. Several miRNAs are reported to influence neuronal and circuit formation by negatively regulating gene expression. Global miRNA reduced expression was found in the prefrontal cortex of depressed suicide completers when compared to that of nonpsychiatric controls who died of other causes. One particular miRNA, miR-185, was reported to regulate TrkB-T1, which has been associated with suicidal behavior upon truncation. Furthermore, cAMP response element-binding protein-brain-derived neurotrophic factor pathways may regulate, through miRNAs, the homeostasis of neural and synaptic pathways playing a crucial role in major depression. miRNAs have gained attention as key players involved in nervous system development, physiology, and disease. Further evidence is needed to clarify the exact role that miRNAs play in major depression and related disorders and suicidal behavior.
Cannabinoid (CB) ligands have demonstrated neuroprotective properties. In this study we compared the effects of a diverse set of CB ligands against  amyloid-mediated neuronal toxicity and activated microglial-conditioned media-based neurotoxicity in vitro, and compared this with a capacity to directly alter  amyloid (A) fibril or aggregate formation. Neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cells were exposed to A1-42 directly or microglial (BV-2 cells) conditioned media activated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in the presence of the CB1 receptor-selective agonist ACEA, CB2 receptor-selective agonist JWH-015, phytocannabinoids (9)-THC and cannabidiol (CBD), the endocannabinoids 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG) and anandamide or putative GPR18/GPR55 ligands O-1602 and abnormal-cannabidiol (Abn-CBD). TNF- and nitrite production was measured in BV-2 cells to compare activation via LPS or albumin with A1-42. A1-42 evoked a concentration-dependent loss of cell viability in SH-SY5Y cells but negligible TNF- and nitrite production in BV-2 cells compared to albumin or LPS. Both albumin and LPS-activated BV-2 conditioned media significantly reduced neuronal cell viability but were directly innocuous to SH-SY5Y cells. Of those CB ligands tested, only 2-AG and CBD were directly protective against A-evoked SH-SY5Y cell viability, whereas JWH-015, THC, CBD, Abn-CBD and O-1602 all protected SH-SY5Y cells from BV-2 conditioned media activated via LPS. While CB ligands variably altered the morphology of A fibrils and aggregates, there was no clear correlation between effects on A morphology and neuroprotective actions. These findings indicate a neuroprotective action of CB ligands via actions at microglial and neuronal cells.
Background/Aims: Extracellular GTP is able to modulate some specific functions in neuron, glia and muscle cell models as it has been demonstrated over the last two decades. In fact, extracellular GTP binds its specific plasma membrane binding sites and induces signal transduction via [Ca(2+)]i increase. We demonstrate, for the first time, that extracellular GTP is able to modulate cell swelling in M1-CCD cortical collecting duct epithelial cells via upregulation of aquaporin 5 (AQP5) expression. Methods: We used videoimaging, immunocitochemistry, flow cytometry, confocal techniques, Western blotting and RT-PCR for protein and gene expression analysis, respectively. Results: We demonstrate that AQP5 mRNA is up-regulated 7 h after the GTP exposure in the cell culture medium, and its protein level is increased after 12-24 h. We show that AQP5 is targeted to the plasma membrane of M1-CCD cells, where it facilitates cell swelling, and that the GTP-dependent AQP5 up-regulation occurs via [Ca(2+)]i increase. Indeed, GTP induces both oscillating and transient [Ca(2+)]i increase, and specifically the oscillating kinetic appears to be responsible for blocking cell cycle in the S-phase while the [Ca(2+)]i influx, with whatever kinetic, seems to be responsible for inducing AQP5 expression. Conclusion: The role of GTP as a regulator of AQP5-mediated water transport in renal cells is of great importance in the physiology of renal epithelia, due to its possible physiopathological implications. GTP-dependent AQP5 expression could act as osmosensor. In addition, the data presented here suggest that GTP might play the same role in other tissues where rapid water transport is required for cell volume regulation and maintenance of the homeostasis.  2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

Three theories of regeneration dominate neuroscience today, all purporting to explain why the adult central nervous system (CNS) cannot regenerate. One theory proposes that Nogo, a molecule expressed by myelin, prevents axonal growth. The second theory emphasizes the role of glial scars. The third theory proposes that chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) prevent axon growth. Blockade of Nogo, CSPG, and their receptors indeed can stop axon growth in vitro and improve functional recovery in animal spinal cord injury (SCI) models. These therapies also increase sprouting of surviving axons and plasticity. However, many investigators have reported regenerating spinal tracts without eliminating Nogo, glial scar, or CSPG. For example, many motor and sensory axons grow spontaneously in contused spinal cords, crossing gliotic tissue and white matter surrounding the injury site. Sensory axons grow long distances in injured dorsal columns after peripheral nerve lesions. Cell transplants and treatments that increase cAMP and neurotrophins stimulate motor and sensory axons to cross glial scars and to grow long distances in white matter. Genetic studies deleting all members of the Nogo family and even the Nogo receptor do not always improve regeneration in mice. A recent study reported that suppressing the phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) gene promotes prolific corticospinal tract regeneration. These findings cannot be explained by the current theories proposing that Nogo and glial scars prevent regeneration. Spinal axons clearly can and will grow through glial scars and Nogo-expressing tissue under some circumstances. The observation that deleting PTEN allows corticospinal tract regeneration indicates that the PTEN/AKT/mTOR pathway regulates axonal growth. Finally, many other factors stimulate spinal axonal growth, including conditioning lesions, cAMP, glycogen synthetase kinase inhibition, and neurotrophins. To explain these disparate regenerative phenomena, I propose that the spinal cord has evolved regenerative mechanisms that are normally suppressed by multiple extrinsic and intrinsic factors but can be activated by injury, mediated by the PTEN/AKT/mTOR, cAMP, and GSK3b pathways, to stimulate neural growth and proliferation.
Umbilical cord blood banks use two methods to store frozen umbilical cord blood (UCB): red cell reduction (RCR) or plasma depletion (PD). The RCR method centrifuges cord blood in hetastarch or albumin to isolate 21 ml of cord blood containing mostly white blood cells, adds 4 ml of 50% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and then freezes the resulting 25 ml of cell suspension. The PD method removes plasma, saves all the cells, and freezes the cells in 10% DMSO. PD UCB units are cheaper to process but more expensive to store and somewhat more troublesome to thaw. However, when properly thawed and washed, PD UCB units have as many or more total nucleated cells (TNCs), CD34(+) cells, and colony-forming units (CFU) than RCR units. Two studies suggest that PD units have 20-25% more TNCs, MNCs, and CD34(+) cells, as well as two to three times more CFU than RCR units. Higher TNC, CD34(+), and CFU counts predict engraftment rate with faster neutrophil and platelet recovery. PD units have high engraftment rates with low mortality and high disease-free survival, comparable with clinical results of treatments with RCR units. One recent series of studies suggests that PD units are more effective for treating thalassemia with 2-year survival rates of 88%, disease-free survival rates of 74%, and 100% cure rate for children under age 7, compared to only 61% overall survival and 23% disease-free survival rate in thalassemic children treated with RCR units. These findings suggest that PD units not only have more TNCs, CD34(+) cells, and CFU than RCR units but also have high engraftment rates and may be more effective for treating certain conditions such as -thalassemia.
The aim of this study was to quantitatively define the main measurable technical parameters for the intramuscular transplantation of myogenic cells in primates. Myoblasts transduced with the gene coding for -galactosidase were injected into the skeletal muscles of 15 monkeys. The following parameters were studied: needle size, number of cells per injection, and volume of cell suspension per injection. Monkeys were immunosuppressed with tacrolimus. The cell-injected sites were biopsied 1 or 2 months later. Biopsies were examined histologically to assess the myoblast engraftment and the muscle structure. The conclusions were as follows: (1) Needles should be thin enough to avoid important tissue damage and allow muscle regeneration as satisfactory as possible. Among those tested, 27G should be the choice if the length is consistent with depth of injection. (2) At least 100,000 cells should be delivered per centimeter of needle trajectory. (3) The smallest volumes of cell suspension per injection should be used. In this study, 1 l/cm of injection trajectory was sufficient. In principle, these parameters apply to muscles in which no damage occurred other than the injections.

Neuronal mechanisms underlying beta/gamma oscillations (20-80 Hz) are not completely understood. Here, we show that in vivo beta/gamma oscillations in the cat visual cortex sometimes exhibit remarkably stable frequency even when inputs fluctuate dramatically. Enhanced frequency stability is associated with stronger oscillations measured in individual units and larger power in the local field potential. Simulations of neuronal circuitry demonstrate that membrane properties of inhibitory interneurons strongly determine the characteristics of emergent oscillations. Exploration of networks containing either integrator or resonator inhibitory interneurons revealed that: (i) Resonance, as opposed to integration, promotes robust oscillations with large power and stable frequency via a mechanism called RING (Resonance INduced Gamma); resonance favors synchronization by reducing phase delays between interneurons and imposes bounds on oscillation cycle duration; (ii) Stability of frequency and robustness of the oscillation also depend on the relative timing of excitatory and inhibitory volleys within the oscillation cycle; (iii) RING can reproduce characteristics of both Pyramidal INterneuron Gamma (PING) and INterneuron Gamma (ING), transcending such classifications; (iv) In RING, robust gamma oscillations are promoted by slow but are impaired by fast inputs. Results suggest that interneuronal membrane resonance can be an important ingredient for generation of robust gamma oscillations having stable frequency.
Extracellular adenosine, a key regulator of neuronal excitability, is metabolized by astrocyte-based enzyme adenosine kinase (ADK). We hypothesized that ADK might be an upstream regulator of adenosine-based homeostatic brain functions by simultaneously affecting several downstream pathways. We therefore studied the relationship between ADK expression, levels of extracellular adenosine, synaptic transmission, intrinsic excitability, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-dependent synaptic actions in transgenic mice underexpressing or overexpressing ADK. We demonstrate that ADK: 1) Critically influences the basal tone of adenosine, evaluated by microelectrode adenosine biosensors, and its release following stimulation; 2) determines the degree of tonic adenosine-dependent synaptic inhibition, which correlates with differential plasticity at hippocampal synapses with low release probability; 3) modulates the age-dependent effects of BDNF on hippocampal synaptic transmission, an action dependent upon co-activation of adenosine A2A receptors; and 4) influences GABAA receptor-mediated currents in CA3 pyramidal neurons. We conclude that ADK provides important upstream regulation of adenosine-based homeostatic function of the brain and that this mechanism is necessary and permissive to synaptic actions of adenosine acting on multiple pathways. These mechanistic studies support previous therapeutic studies and implicate ADK as a promising therapeutic target for upstream control of multiple neuronal signaling pathways crucial for a variety of neurological disorders.





Small conductance Ca (2+)-sensitive potassium (SK2) channels are voltage-independent, Ca (2+)-activated ion channels that conduct potassium cations and thereby modulate the intrinsic excitability and synaptic transmission of neurons and sensory hair cells. In the cochlea, SK2 channels are functionally coupled to the highly Ca (2+) permeant 9/10-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) at olivocochlear postsynaptic sites. SK2 activation leads to outer hair cell hyperpolarization and frequency-selective suppression of afferent sound transmission. These inhibitory responses are essential for normal regulation of sound sensitivity, frequency selectivity, and suppression of background noise. However, little is known about the molecular interactions of these key functional channels. Here we show that SK2 channels co-precipitate with 9/10-nAChRs and with the actin-binding protein -actinin-1. SK2 alternative splicing, resulting in a 3 amino acid insertion in the intracellular 3' terminus, modulates these interactions. Further, relative abundance of the SK2 splice variants changes during developmental stages of synapse maturation in both the avian cochlea and the mammalian forebrain. Using heterologous cell expression to separately study the 2 distinct isoforms, we show that the variants differ in protein interactions and surface expression levels, and that Ca (2+) and Ca (2+)-bound calmodulin differentially regulate their protein interactions. Our findings suggest that the SK2 isoforms may be distinctly modulated by activity-induced Ca (2+) influx. Alternative splicing of SK2 may serve as a novel mechanism to differentially regulate the maturation and function of olivocochlear and neuronal synapses.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are proton-sensitive, sodium-selective channels expressed in the nervous system that sense changes in extracellular pH. These ion channels are sensitive to an increasing number of nonproton ligands that include natural venom peptides and guanidine compounds. In the case of chicken ASIC1, the spider toxin Psalmotoxin-1 (PcTx1) activates the channel, resulting in an inward current. Furthermore, a growing class of ligands containing a guanidine group has been identified that stimulate peripheral ASICs (ASIC3), but exert subtle influence on other ASIC subtypes. The effects of the guanidine compounds on cASIC1 have not been the focus of previous study. Here, we investigated the interaction of the guanidine compound 2-guanidine-4-methylquinazoline (GMQ) on cASIC1 proton activation and PcTx1 stimulation. Exposure of expressed cASIC1 to PcTx1 resulted in biphasic currents consisting of a transient peak followed by an irreversible cASIC1 PcTx1 persistent current. This cASIC1 PcTx1 persistent current may be the result of locking the cASIC1 protein into a desensitized transition state. The guanidine compound GMQ increased the apparent affinity of protons on cASIC1 and decreased the half-maximal constant of the cASIC1 steady-state desensitization profile. Furthermore, GMQ stimulated the cASIC1 PcTx1 persistent current in a concentration-dependent manner, which resulted in a non-desensitizing inward current. Our data suggests that GMQ may have multiple sites within cASIC1 and may act as a &quot;molecular wedge&quot; that forces the PcTx1-desensitized ASIC into an open state. Our findings indicate that guanidine compounds, such as GMQ, may alter acid-sensing ion channel activity in combination with other stimuli, and that additional ASIC subtypes (along with ASIC3) may serve to sense and mediate signals from multiple stimuli.
Angiogenesis is a constant hallmark of multiple myeloma progression and has prognostic potential. Multiple myeloma cells interact with surrounding host cells and extracellular matrix, this crosstalk affecting the most important aspects of the malignant phenotype, both at primary and secondary tumor sites. The pathophysiology of multiple myeloma-induced angiogenesis involves both direct production of angiogenic cytokines by plasma cells and their induction within the bone marrow microenvironment cells. A direct involvement of bone marrow macrophages and mast cells in vasculogenic mimicry has been demonstrated, thus contributing together with circulating endothelial cells and endothelial precursor cells to the multiple myeloma neovascularization. The role of host cells or the niche microenvironment and extracellular matrix represents an intense area of research, finalized at a better understanding of the pathophysiological modifications of the complete tumor entity, i.e. malignant cells and microenvironment.
Over the past 25 years, the number of Medline publications dealing with angiogenesis has increased in a nonlinear fashion, reflecting the interest among basic scientists and clinicians in this field. Under physiological conditions, angiogenesis is regulated by the local balance between endogenous stimulators and inhibitors of this process. In tumor growth, there is an imbalance between endogenous stimulator and inhibitor levels, leading to an 'angiogenic switch'. Starting with the hypothesis formulated by Judah Folkman that tumor growth is angiogenesis-dependent, this area of research has a solid scientific foundation and inhibition of angiogenesis is a major area of therapeutic development for the treatment of cancer. This paper offers an account of the most relevant discoveries in this field of biomedical research.
Although they represent attractive therapeutic targets, caspases have so far proven recalcitrant to the development of drugs targeting the active site. Allosteric modulation of caspase activity is an alternate strategy that potentially avoids the need for anionic and electrophilic functionality present in most active-site inhibitors. Caspase-6 has been implicated in neurodegenerative disease, including Huntington's and Alzheimer's diseases. Herein we describe a fragment-based lead discovery effort focused on caspase-6 in its active and zymogen forms. Fragments were identified for procaspase-6 using surface plasmon resonance methods and subsequently shown by X-ray crystallography to bind a putative allosteric site at the dimer interface. A fragment-merging strategy was employed to produce nanomolar-affinity ligands that contact residues in the L2 loop at the dimer interface, significantly stabilizing procaspase-6. Because rearrangement of the L2 loop is required for caspase-6 activation, our results suggest a strategy for the allosteric control of caspase activation with drug-like small molecules.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common malignant primary brain tumor in adults. Standard therapeutic approaches provide modest improvement in the progression-free and overall survival, necessitating the investigation of novel therapies. We review the standard treatment options for GBM and evaluate the results obtained in clinical trials for promising novel approaches, including the inhibition of angiogenesis, targeted approaches against molecular pathways, immunotherapies, and local treatment with low voltage electric fields.

Knowledge of the possible neural interconnections found between the lower cranial and upper cervical nerves may prove useful to surgeons who operate on the skull base and upper neck regions in order to avoid inadvertent traction or transection. We review the literature regarding the anatomy, function, and clinical implications of the complex neural networks formed by interconnections between the lower cranial and upper cervical nerves. A review of germane anatomic and clinical literature was performed. The review is organized into two parts. Part I discusses the anastomoses between the trigeminal, facial, and vestibulocochlear nerves or their branches and other nerve trunks or branches in the vicinity. Part II deals with the anastomoses between the glossopharyngeal, vagus, accessory and hypoglossal nerves and their branches or between these nerves and the first four cervical spinal nerves; the contribution of the autonomic nervous system to these neural plexuses is also briefly reviewed. Part II is presented in this article. Extensive and variable neural anastomoses exist between the lower cranial nerves and between the upper cervical nerves in such a way that these nerves with their extra-axial communications can be collectively considered a plexus.

According to functionalist theories, consciousness can be defined by the functions that it serves and by the way it contributes to cognition. For example, when trying to establish dissociations between conscious and unconscious knowledge, conscious representations would be identified by the fact that they allow cognitive control or successful identification or recollection, assessed by verbal reports or forced-choice tasks. Even though the functionalist approach has brought about important dissociation results concerning conscious and unconscious cognition, critics emphasize that it does not account for the qualitative properties of conscious experience. Phenomenal theories are precisely based on the notion that conscious representations are such that it feels like something to have these representations. Thus, one way to assess conscious knowledge is to ask people, after they have produced a forced-choice response, to identify their mental states through the use of subjective confidence ratings, in which they discriminate between a complete guess and a response based on some feeling of knowing. However, these 2 approaches are not mutually exclusive. In this article, we review a series of studies showing that the joint use of objective judgments about some external stimuli and about one's own subjective knowledge concerning these stimuli, provides new insights into the putative dissociation between conscious and unconscious knowledge in learning.





Several lines of scientific evidence showed that topiramate may induce psychotic symptoms when used as monotherapy. It has been postulated that this topiramate effect may be caused by the inhibition of frontal and prefrontal areas induced by topiramate. The clinical history of the patient described shows that topiramate may also induce psychosis when used in polytherapy. A 34-year-old man, with epilepsy associated to tuberous sclerosis complex and without a previous history of mental disorders, presented an acute onset of florid psychotic symptoms, including visual and auditory hallucinations, derealization, and depersonalization. These symptoms appeared 1 month after the introduction of topiramate, added to levetiracetam and carbamazepine, when topiramate reached the dose of 200 mg daily. Once topiramate was discontinued, the psychotic symptoms disappeared, with no recurrence in a 4-month follow-up. Psychotic symptoms were associated with topiramate administration. We hypothesized that psychotic symptoms appeared a month after the topiramate introduction because of the slow topiramate titration and protective effect of carbamazepine.
The selective estrogen receptor modulator, tamoxifen, is extensively used for the endocrine treatment of all stages of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. Tamoxifen is a mainly inactive prodrug, necessitating metabolism by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) pathway, predominantly the Cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6), into the active metabolites 4-hydroxytamoxifen and, in particular, endoxifen to achieve its therapeutic effect. As several women treated with tamoxifen may experience depressive symptoms or may have a previous or actual major depressive episode with ongoing antidepressant treatment or need for a new-onset therapy, the coprescription of an antidepressant drug may be particularly problematic as several antidepressants are potent CYP2D6-inhibiting drugs. We herein report a case of a patient with major depression and concurrent tamoxifen therapy successfully treated with agomelatine monotherapy.










Although primary headaches are very prevalent also in pediatric age, most neurophysiologic studies in these diseases concerned only the adulthood. The neurophysiologic investigation of the pathophysiological mechanisms subtending migraine and tension-type headache in children and adolescents could be particularly interesting, since during the developmental age the migrainous phenotype is scarcely influenced by many environmental factors that can typically act on adult headache patients. The neurophysiologic abnormality most frequently found in adult migraineurs, that is the reduced habituation of evoked potentials, was confirmed also in migraine children, although it was shown to involve also children with tension-type headache. Some studies showed abnormalities in the maturation of brain functions in migraine children and adolescents. While the visual system maturation seems slowed in young migraineurs, the psychophysiological mechanisms subtending somatosensory spatial attention in migraine children are more similar to those of healthy adults than to those of age-matched controls. There are some still unexplored fields that will have to be subjects of future studies. The nociceptive modality, which has been investigated in adult patients with primary headaches, should be studied also in pediatric migraine. Moreover, the technique of transcranial magnetic stimulation, not yet used in young migraineurs, will possibly provide further elements about brain excitability in migraine children.
The need for post-acute neurorehabilitation after childhood acquired brain injury is increasingly recognized but recent reviews highlight the limited evidence-base and lack of a neuropsychological treatment model. Evidence from different fields was reviewed to inform the development of a pediatric neurocognitive interventions (PNI) model. The review included literature from child neuropsychology, adult neuropsychology, cognitive neuroscience, learning disabilities, education, and mental health. The resulting PNI model provides a systematic approach to delivering and evaluating appropriate care while minimizing the obstacles to successful outcomes. The model emphasizes the role of development and cognitive maturation in the planning of rehabilitation. Areas that represent significant gaps in our knowledge are discussed and future research directions are suggested based on predictions generated by the proposed model.
In the present study we analyzed the psychometric characteristics of the MoCA (Portuguese version) using the Rasch model for dichotomous items. The total sample comprised of 897 participants distributed between two main subgroups: (I) healthy group that was comprised of 650 cognitively healthy community dwellers and (II) clinical group that was comprised of 90 patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment, 90 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 33 patients with frontotemporal dementia, and 34 patients with vascular dementia recruited at a reference dementia clinic. All patients were investigated through a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment, laboratory tests essential to exclude a reversible form of dementia, imaging studies (CT or MRI and SPECT or FDG-PET), Apolipoprotein E allele genotyping and CSF biomarker (A42,Tau, and P-tau) analyses. The clinical diagnosis was established through the consensus of a multidisciplinary team, based on international criteria. The results demonstrated an overall good fit of both items and the person's values, a high variability on cognitive performance level, and a good quality of the measurements. The MoCA scores also demonstrated adequate discriminant validity, with high diagnostic value. DIF analyses indicated the generalized validity of the MoCA scores. In conclusion, the results of this study show the overall psychometric adequacy of the MoCA and verify the discriminant and generalized validity of the obtained results.
Panic disorder refers to the frequent and recurring acute attacks of anxiety. Objective: This study describes the routine use of mobiles phones (MPs) and investigates the appearance of possible emotional alterations or symptoms related to their use in patients with panic disorder (PD). Background: We compared patients with PD and agoraphobia being treated at the Panic and Respiration Laboratory of The Institute of Psychiatry, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to a control group of healthy volunteers. Methods: An MP-use questionnaire was administered to a consecutive sample of 50 patients and 70 controls. Results: People with PD showed significant increases in anxiety, tachycardia, respiratory alterations, trembling, perspiration, panic, fear and depression related to the lack of an MP compared to the control group. Conclusions: Both groups exhibited dependence on and were comforted by having an MP; however, people with PD and agoraphobia showed significantly more emotional alterations as well as intense physical and psychological symptoms when they were apart from or unable to use an MP compared to healthy volunteers.


Development of motor and non-motor complications during the course of Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major challenge for therapeutic management. At advanced disease stages, patients frequently fluctuate between PD symptoms-such as bradykinesia-and dyskinesias, in response to fluctuations in drug concentrations. Continuous subcutaneous infusion of the dopamine agonist apomorphine or intestinal infusion of levodopa reduce such fluctuations in both pharmacokinetics and motor function. This is the basis for the concept of continuous drug delivery in PD, and the more theoretical concept of continuous dopaminergic stimulation. These expressions are sometimes used to describe a treatment that is more continuous in its pharmacokinetic profile or that produces more sustained effects, compared with immediate-release levodopa, i.e. not only pump treatments. For example, sustained-release formulations of levodopa or dopamine agonists, transdermal delivery of rotigotine, and addition of catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors or monoamine oxidase-B inhibitors have been developed with the aim to provide more continuous drug concentrations, sustained benefits and minimized side effects. Progress has been made, but there are still knowledge gaps regarding how these treatment alternatives can be optimally used. New treatments are currently being developed to provide the continuous drug delivery that is known to successfully alleviate motor and non-motor complications. Hopefully, although not yet proven, these new methods may also prevent or postpone some of the late-stage complications.





Neutral memories unbind from their emotional acquisition context when sleep is allowed the night after learning and testing takes place after two additional nights of sleep. However, mood-dependent memory (MDM) effects are not abolished after a restricted sleep episode mostly featuring non rapid-eye-movement (NREM) or rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep. Here, we tested whether (1) one night of sleep featuring several NREM-REM sleep cycles is sufficient to suppress MDM effects and (2) a neutral mood is a sufficiently contrasting state to induce MDM effects, i.e. interfere with the recall of information learned in happy or sad states. Results disclosed MDM effects both in the post-learning sleep and wake conditions, with better recall in congruent than incongruent emotional contexts. Our findings suggest that the emotional unbinding needs several consecutive nights of sleep to be complete, and that even subtle mood changes are sufficient to produce MDM effects.
Robert Weiss (1973) conceptualised loneliness as perceived social isolation, which he described as a gnawing, chronic disease without redeeming features. On the scale of everyday life, it is understandable how something as personally aversive as loneliness could be regarded as a blight on human existence. However, evolutionary time and evolutionary forces operate at such a different scale of organisation than we experience in everyday life that personal experience is not sufficient to understand the role of loneliness in human existence. Research over the past decade suggests a very different view of loneliness than suggested by personal experience, one in which loneliness serves a variety of adaptive functions in specific habitats. We review evidence on the heritability of loneliness and outline an evolutionary theory of loneliness, with an emphasis on its potential adaptive value in an evolutionary timescale.


In many Hebrew compounds, which are two-word phrases, the first word is marked morphophonologically, and often also orthographically, as the head of the compound. Because Hebrew is read from right to left, this allowed us to ask whether a right-hand word that is marked orthographically as a compound-head, and hence signals that another word is expected, causes readers with text-based neglect to continue shifting attention to the left and read the second word. We also asked whether the second, left-hand, word affects the reading of the first word. The effect of the second word was assessed in a condition in which the second word semantically disambiguated the first word, a biased heterophonic homograph, and a condition in which the second word formed a compound with the first and hence required reading the first in the morphophonological form of a compound-head. The two participants were Hebrew-speaking men with acquired left text-level neglect dyslexia, without word-based neglect dyslexia. They read 294 two-word compounds and control phrases, composed of five conditions that assessed the effect of the first word on the second word, and of the second on the first. The results indicated that morphosyntax modulates reading in neglect dyslexia. When the first, right-hand, word included an orthographic cue indicating that a second word follows, fewer words on the left were omitted than when no such cue existed. The second word, however, did not affect the reading of the first, and the first word was read as if the patients did not look ahead to the second.
There is increasing interest in the nature and both environmental and cognitive origins of culturally associated differences in a range of behaviors. This special issue of Cognitive Neuroscience presents six empirical papers investigating diverse categories of potential culturally related effects as well as a review article, all of which provide timely updates of the current state of knowledge in this area.
Cultural differences have been shown across a number of different cognitive domains from vision, language, and music. Mathematical cognition is another domain that is an integral part of modern society and because there are a fixed number of ways in which many math operations can be performed, it is also an apposite tool for cultural comparisons. This discussion examines the literature on mathematical processing in accordance with culture, summarizing the brain regions involved across various mathematical tasks. In doing so, we provide a clear picture of the anatomical similarities and differences between cultures when performing different math tasks. This information is useful to explore the possibility of enhancement of mathematical skills, where different strategies may be applicable in accordance with culture. It also contributes to the evolutionary development of different math skills and the growing theory that anatomical and behavioral studies must account for the cultural identity of their sample.
Preschool children have been proven to possess nonsymbolic approximate arithmetic skills before learning how to manipulate symbolic math and thus before any formal math instruction. It has been assumed that nonsymbolic approximate math tasks necessitate the allocation of Working Memory (WM) resources. WM has been consistently shown to be an important predictor of children's math development and achievement. The aim of our study was to uncover the specific role of WM in nonsymbolic approximate math. For this purpose, we conducted a dual-task study with preschoolers with active phonological, visual, spatial, and central executive interference during the completion of a nonsymbolic approximate addition dot task. With regard to the role of WM, we found a clear performance breakdown in the central executive interference condition. Our findings provide insight into the underlying cognitive processes involved in storing and manipulating nonsymbolic approximate numerosities during early arithmetic.
Aequorin is a Ca(2+)-sensitive photoprotein isolated from the jellyfish Aequorea victoria. It is an ideal probe for measuring Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]) in intracellular organelles because it can be modified to include specific targeting sequences. On the binding of Ca(2+) to three high-affinity sites in aequorin, an irreversible reaction occurs in which the prosthetic group coelenterazine is released and a photon is emitted. This protocol presents procedures for expressing, targeting, and reconstituting aequorin in intact and permeabilized mammalian cells and describes how to use this photoprotein to measure intracellular [Ca(2+)] in various subcellular compartments.
Ca(2+)-sensitive photoproteins are ideal agents for measuring the Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]) in intracellular organelles because they can be modified to include specific targeting sequences. Aequorin was the first Ca(2+)-sensitive photoprotein probe used to measure the [Ca(2+)] inside specific intracellular organelles in intact cells. Aequorin is a 22-kDa protein produced by the jellyfish Aequorea victoria. On the binding of Ca(2+) to three high-affinity sites in aequorin, an irreversible reaction occurs in which the prosthetic group is released and a photon is emitted. Aequorin has become widely used for intracellular Ca(2+) measurements because it offers many advantages: For example, it can be targeted with precision, functions over a wide range of [Ca(2+)], and shows low buffering capacity. In this article we describe the main characteristics of the aequorin probe and review the reasons why it is widely used to measure intracellular [Ca(2+)].
Synaptic vesicles release their vesicular contents to the extracellular space by Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis. The Ca(2+)-triggered exocytotic process is regulated by synaptotagmin (Syt), a vesicular Ca(2+)-binding C2 domain protein. Synaptotagmin 1 (Syt1), the most studied major isoform among 16 Syt isoforms, mediates Ca(2+)-triggered synaptic vesicle exocytosis by interacting with the target membranes and SNARE/complexin complex. In synapses of the central nervous system, synaptobrevin 2, a major vesicular SNARE protein, forms a ternary SNARE complex with the plasma membrane SNARE proteins, syntaxin 1 and SNAP25. The affinities of Ca(2+)-dependent interactions between Syt1 and its targets (i.e., SNARE complexes and membranes) are well correlated with the efficacies of the corresponding exocytotic processes. Therefore, different SNARE protein isoforms and membrane lipids, which interact with Syt1 with various affinities, are capable of regulating the efficacy of Syt1-mediated exocytosis. Otoferlin, another type of vesicular C2 domain protein that binds to the membrane in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, is also involved in the Ca(2+)-triggered synaptic vesicle exocytosis in auditory hair cells. However, the functions of otoferlin in the exocytotic process are not well understood. In addition, at least five different types of synaptic vesicle proteins such as synaptic vesicle protein 2, cysteine string protein , rab3, synapsin, and a group of proteins containing four transmembrane regions, which includes synaptophysin, synaptogyrin, and secretory carrier membrane protein, are involved in modulating the exocytotic process by regulating the formation and trafficking of synaptic vesicles.

Fibromyalgia syndrome (FM) is frequently associated with migraine. In this study we aimed to compare personality profiles and coping styles across 23 migraine without aura patients sharing FM comorbidity (MWA-FM), 28 migraine without aura patients without FM symptoms (MWA) and 51 age- and sex-matched controls, by means of Big Five Questionnaire (BFQ) and Coping Orientation to Problem Experienced (COPE), and to correlate main results with clinical features. The &quot;Energy&quot; personality factor was significantly reduced in patients presenting with FM symptoms, compared to both migraine without aura patients and controls. A low score in &quot;Dynamism&quot; sub-item with a high score in denial coping style was able to distinguish MWA from MW-FM groups with an accuracy of 82.35% (Wilks lambda=0.98; chi-square=8.99, DF=1, p=0.005). In particular, lower &quot;Dynamism&quot; scores corresponded to a major expression of allodynia, fatigue, anxiety, depression, headache frequency and poor quality of sleep and life. Avoidance from active coping with stressful events may facilitate worsening of migraine and fibromyalgia comorbidity.
Brain machine interfaces (BMIs) have attracted intense attention as a promising technology for directly interfacing computers or prostheses with the brain's motor and sensory areas, thereby bypassing the body. The availability of multiscale neural recordings including spike trains and local field potentials (LFPs) brings potential opportunities to enhance computational modeling by enriching the characterization of the neural system state. However, heterogeneity on data type (spike timing versus continuous amplitude signals) and spatiotemporal scale complicates the model integration of multiscale neural activity. In this paper, we propose a tensor-product-kernel-based framework to integrate the multiscale activity and exploit the complementary information available in multiscale neural activity. This provides a common mathematical framework for incorporating signals from different domains. The approach is applied to the problem of neural decoding and control. For neural decoding, the framework is able to identify the nonlinear functional relationship between the multiscale neural responses and the stimuli using general purpose kernel adaptive filtering. In a sensory stimulation experiment, the tensor-product-kernel decoder outperforms decoders that use only a single neural data type. In addition, an adaptive inverse controller for delivering electrical microstimulation patterns that utilizes the tensor-product kernel achieves promising results in emulating the responses to natural stimulation.
This paper proposes a fast and accurate calibration method to calibrate multiple multimodal sensors using a novel photogrammetry system for fast localization of EEG sensors. The EEG sensors are placed on human head and multimodal sensors are installed around the head to simultaneously obtain all EEG sensor positions. A multiple views' calibration process is implemented to obtain the transformations of multiple views. We first develop an efficient local repair algorithm to improve the depth map, and then a special calibration body is designed. Based on them, accurate and robust calibration results can be achieved. We evaluate the proposed method by corners of a chessboard calibration plate. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can achieve good performance, which can be further applied to EEG source localization applications on human brain.
In functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies using spatial independent component analysis (sICA) method, a model of &quot;latent variables&quot; is often employed, which is based on the assumption that fMRI data are linear mixtures of statistically independent signals. However, actual fMRI signals are nonlinear and do not automatically meet with the requirement of sICA. To provide a better solution to this problem, we proposed a novel approach termed instantaneous power based fMRI (ip-fMRI) for regularization of fMRI data. Given that the instantaneous power of fMRI signals is a scalar value, it should be a linear mixture that naturally satisfies the &quot;latent variables&quot; model. Based on our simulated data, the curves of accuracy and resulting receiver-operating characteristic curves indicate that the proposed approach is superior to the traditional fMRI in terms of accuracy and specificity by using sICA. Experimental results from human subjects have shown that spatial components of a hand movement task-induced activation reveal a brain network more specific to motor function by ip-fMRI than that by the traditional fMRI. We conclude that ICA decomposition of ip-fMRI may be used to localize energy signal changes in the brain and may have a potential to be applied to detection of brain activity.

Brain midline shift (MLS) is a significant factor in brain CT diagnosis. In this paper, we present a new method of automatically detecting and quantifying brain midline shift in traumatic injury brain CT images. The proposed method automatically picks out the CT slice on which midline shift can be observed most clearly and uses automatically detected anatomical markers to delineate the deformed midline and quantify the shift. For each anatomical marker, the detector generates five candidate points. Then the best candidate for each marker is selected based on the statistical distribution of features characterizing the spatial relationships among the markers. Experiments show that the proposed method outperforms previous methods, especially in the cases of large intra-cerebral hemorrhage and missing ventricles. A brain CT retrieval system is also developed based on the brain midline shift quantification results.
Extant findings suggest interesting avenues for the investigation of the potential relationship between EFT and PM. However, as they stand, they are inconclusive as to the causal role that EFT may play in aiding prospective remembering. In one Experiment, we showed that accuracy in a prospective memory (PM) task performed on the second day was significantly higher when participants, on the first day, had mentally simulated the sequence of events expected to occur on the second day, including the PM task, than when they had performed control tasks. These data extend previous findings on the functional benefit of future simulations in different domains by revealing a substantial facilitation effect of future-oriented thoughts on PM performance when the mentally simulated future task matched the actually executed task.
The prevalence of obesity is high resulting from chronic imbalances between energy intake and expenditure. On the expenditure side, regular exercise is associated with health benefits, including enhanced brain function. The benefits of exercise are not immediate and require persistence to be realized. Brain regions associated with health-related decisions, such as whether or not to exercise or controlling the impulse to engage in immediately rewarding activities (e.g., sedentary behavior), include reward processing and cognitive control regions. A 9 month aerobic exercise study will be conducted in 180 sedentary adults (n = 90 healthy weight [BMI = 18.5 to 26.0 kg/m(2)]; n = 90 obese [BMI = 29.0 to 41.0 kg/m(2)) to examine the brain processes underlying reward processing and impulse control that may affect adherence in a new exercise regimen. The primary aim is to use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine reward processing and impulse control among participants that adhere (exercise &gt;80% of sessions) and those that do not adhere to a nine-month exercise intervention with secondary analyses comparing sedentary obese and sedentary healthy weight participants. Our results will provide valuable information characterizing brain activation underlying reward processing and impulse control in sedentary obese and healthy weight individuals. In addition, our results may identify brain activation predictors of adherence and success in the exercise program along with measuring the effects of exercise and improved fitness on brain activation.


Recent evidence from multiple neuroscience techniques indicates that regions within the anterior temporal lobes (ATLs) are a critical node in the neural network for representing conceptual knowledge, yet their function remains elusive. The hub-and-spoke model holds that ATL regions act as a transmodal conceptual hub, distilling the various sensory-motor features of objects and words into integrated, coherent conceptual representations. Single-cell recordings in monkeys suggest that the ATLs are critically involved in visual associative learning; however, investigations of this region in humans have focused on existing knowledge rather than learning. We studied acquisition of new concepts in semantic dementia patients, who have cortical damage centred on the ventrolateral aspects of the ATLs. Patients learned to assign abstract visual stimuli to two categories. The categories conformed to a family resemblance structure in which no individual stimulus features were fully diagnostic; thus the task required participants to form representations that integrate multiple features into a single concept. Patients were unable to do this, instead responding only on the basis of individual features. The study reveals that integrating disparate sources of information into novel coherent concepts is a critical computational function of the ATLs. This explains the central role of this region in conceptual representation and the catastrophic breakdown of concepts in semantic dementia.
The ability to learn to use new words is thought to depend on the integrity of the left dorsal temporo-frontal speech processing pathway. We tested this assumption in a chronic aphasic individual (AA) with an extensive left temporal lesion using a new-word learning paradigm. She exhibited severe phonological problems and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) suggested a complete disconnection of this left-sided white-matter pathway comprising the arcuate fasciculus (AF). Diffusion imaging tractography confirmed the disconnection of the direct segment and the posterior indirect segment of her left AF, essential components of the left dorsal speech processing pathway. Despite her left-hemispheric damage and moderate aphasia, AA learned to name and maintain the novel words in her active vocabulary on par with healthy controls up to 6 months after learning. This exceeds previous demonstrations of word learning ability in aphasia. Interestingly, AA's preserved word learning ability was modality-specific as it was observed exclusively for written words. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) revealed that in contrast to normals, AA showed a significantly right-lateralized activation pattern in the temporal and parietal regions when engaged in reading. Moreover, learning of visually presented novel word-picture pairs also activated the right temporal lobe in AA. Both AA and the controls showed increased activation during learning of novel versus familiar word-picture pairs in the hippocampus, an area critical for associative learning. AA's structural and functional imaging results suggest that in a literate person, a right-hemispheric network can provide an effective alternative route for learning of novel active vocabulary. Importantly, AA's previously undetected word learning ability translated directly into therapy, as she could use written input also to successfully re-learn and maintain familiar words that she had lost due to her left hemisphere lesion.
Cortical electrical stimulation mapping was used to study neural substrates of the function of writing in the temporoparietal cortex. We identified the sites involved in oral language (sentence reading and naming) and writing from dictation, in order to spare these areas during removal of brain tumours in 30 patients (23 in the left, and 7 in the right hemisphere). Electrostimulation of the cortex impaired writing ability in 62 restricted cortical areas (.25 cm2). These were found in left temporoparietal lobes and were mostly located along the superior temporal gyrus (Brodmann's areas 22 and 42). Stimulation of right temporoparietal lobes in right-handed patients produced no writing impairments. However there was a high variability of location between individuals. Stimulation resulted in combined symptoms (affecting oral language and writing) in fourteen patients, whereas in eight other patients, stimulation-induced pure agraphia symptoms with no oral language disturbance in twelve of the identified areas. Each detected area affected writing in a different way. We detected the various different stages of the auditory-to-motor pathway of writing from dictation: either through comprehension of the dictated sentences (word deafness areas), lexico-semantic retrieval, or phonologic processing. In group analysis, barycentres of all different types of writing interferences reveal a hierarchical functional organization along the superior temporal gyrus from initial word recognition to lexico-semantic and phonologic processes along the ventral and the dorsal comprehension pathways, supporting the previously described auditory-to-motor process. The left posterior Sylvian region supports different aspects of writing function that are extremely specialized and localized, sometimes being segregated in a way that could account for the occurrence of pure agraphia that has long-been described in cases of damage to this region.
The role of conscious intention in relation to motoric movements has become a major topic of investigation in neuroscience. Traditionally, reports of conscious intention have been compared to various features of the readiness-potential (RP)--an electrophysiological signal that appears before voluntary movements. Experiments, however, tend to study intentions in immediate relation to movements (proximal intentions), thus ignoring other aspects of intentions such as planning or deciding in advance of movement (distal intentions). The current study examines the difference in electrophysiological activity between proximal intention and distal intention, using electroencephalography (EEG). Participants had to form an intention to move and then wait 2.5 sec before performing the actual movement. In this way, the electrophysiological activity related to forming a conscious intention was separated from any confounding activity related to automated motor activity. This was compared to conditions in which participants had to act as soon as they had the intention and a condition where participants acted upon an external cue 2.5 sec prior to movement. We examined the RP for the three conditions. No difference was found in early RP, but late RP differed significantly depending on the type of intention. In addition, we analysed signals during a longer time-interval starting before the time of distal intention formation until after the actual movement concluded. Results showed a slow negative electrophysiological &quot;intention potential&quot; above the mid-frontal areas at the time participants formed a distal intention. This potential was only found when the distal intention was self-paced and not when the intention was formed in response to an external cue.
The functional role of the superior temporal sulcus (STS) has been implicated in a number of studies, including those investigating face perception, voice perception, and face-voice integration. However, the nature of the STS preference for these 'social stimuli' remains unclear, as does the location within the STS for specific types of information processing. The aim of this study was to directly examine properties of the STS in terms of selective response to social stimuli. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to scan participants whilst they were presented with auditory, visual, or audiovisual stimuli of people or objects, with the intention of localising areas preferring both faces and voices (i.e., 'people-selective' regions) and audiovisual regions designed to specifically integrate person-related information. Results highlighted a 'people-selective, heteromodal' region in the trunk of the right STS which was activated by both faces and voices, and a restricted portion of the right posterior STS (pSTS) with an integrative preference for information from people, as compared to objects. These results point towards the dedicated role of the STS as a 'social-information processing' centre.
Observing the actions of others has been shown to modulate cortico-spinal excitability and affect behaviour. However, the sensorimotor consequences of observing errors are not well understood. Here, participants watched actors lift identically weighted large and small cubes which typically elicit expectation-based fingertip force errors. One group of participants observed the standard overestimation and underestimation-style errors that characterise early lifts with these cubes (Error video--EV). Another group watched the same actors performing the well-adapted error-free lifts that characterise later, well-practiced lifts with these cubes (No error video--NEV). We then examined actual object lifting performance in the subjects who watched the EV and NEV. Despite having similar cognitive expectations and perceptions of heaviness, the group that watched novice lifters making errors themselves made fewer overestimation-style errors than those who watched the expert lifts. To determine how the observation of errors alters cortico-spinal excitability, we measured motor evoked potentials in separate group of participants while they passively observed these EV and NEV. Here, we noted a novel size-based modulation of cortico-spinal excitability when observing the expert lifts, which was eradicated when watching errors. Together, these findings suggest that individuals' sensorimotor systems are sensitive to the subtle visual differences between observing novice and expert performance.
Inventive conceptions amount to creative ideas for designing devices that are both original and useful. The generation of inventive conceptions is a key element of the inventive process. However, neural mechanisms of the inventive process remain poorly understood. Here we employed functional feature association tasks and event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to investigate neural substrates for the generation of inventive conceptions. The functional MRI (fMRI) data revealed significant activations at Brodmann area (BA) 47 in the left inferior frontal gyrus and at BA 18 in the left lingual gyrus, when participants performed biological functional feature association tasks compared with non-biological functional feature association tasks. Our results suggest that the left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 47) is associated with novelty-based representations formed by the generation and selection of semantic relatedness, and the left lingual gyrus (BA 18) is involved in relevant visual imagery in processing of semantic relatedness. The findings might shed light on neural mechanisms underlying the inventive process.



Despite significant promise, the routine usage of suspension cell culture to manufacture stem cell-derived differentiated cells has progressed slowly. Suspension culture is an innovative way of either expanding or differentiating cells and sometimes both are combined into a single bioprocess. Its advantages over static 2D culturing include a homogeneous and controllable culture environment and producing a large quantity of cells in a fraction of time. This feature makes suspension cell culture ideal for use in stem cell research and eventually ideal in the large-scale production of differentiated cells for regenerative medicine. Because of their tremendous differentiation capacities and unlimited growth properties, pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) in particular are considered potential sources for future cell-replacement therapies. Currently, expansion of PSCs is accomplished in 2D, which only permits a limited amount of cell growth per culture flask before cells need to be passaged. However, before stem cells can be applied clinically, several aspects of their expansion, such as directed growth, but also differentiation, need to be better controlled. This review will summarize recent advantages in suspension culture of PSCs, while at the same time highlighting current challenges.
This study investigates the relationship between discrimination and substance abuse among Latina/os, and further examines whether this relationship differs by gender and type of discrimination. Analyses focus on the Latina/o respondents (n = 1,039 men; n = 1,273 women) from the National Latino and Asian American Study carried out from 2002-2003. Outcomes were alcohol abuse and drug abuse measured using DSM-IV definitions and criteria. Additional covariates included immigrant characteristics and demographics. Analyses were completed using gender-stratified multinomial logistic regression. Men reported more discrimination (39.6% vs. 30.3%) and had higher prevalence of alcohol abuse (16.5% vs. 4.5%) and drug abuse (9.5% vs. 2.3%) than women. Discrimination was significantly associated with increased risk of alcohol abuse for women and increased risk of drug abuse for men. Men and women also varied in the types of discrimination (e.g., racial vs. gender) reported, and in the associations between these types of discrimination and substance abuse. These data indicate that discrimination is associated with different substance abuse outcomes between genders. Future research should consider the mechanisms that explain these differences.
As part of a government policy of assimilation beginning in the mid-1800s, a large proportion of Aboriginal children in Canada were forcibly removed from their homes to attend Indian Residential Schools (IRSs), a practice which continued into the 1990s. This traumatic experience had lasting negative effects not only on those who attended but also on their offspring, who were previously found to report higher levels of perceived discrimination and depressive symptoms compared with Aboriginal adults whose families were not directly affected by IRSs. In attempt to elucidate the processes involved in these previous findings, the current study (N = 399) revealed that greater levels of past perceptions of discrimination among IRS offspring, together with their greater likelihood of considering their Aboriginal heritage to be a central component of their self-concept (i.e., high identity centrality), were associated with an increased likelihood of appraising subsequent negative intergroup scenarios to be a result of discrimination and as threatening to their well-being. In turn, these altered appraisals of threat in response to the scenarios were associated with higher levels of depressive symptoms relative to non-IRS adults. The apparent reinforcing relationships between past discrimination, identity centrality, and appraisals of discrimination and threat in intergroup interactions highlight the need for interventions targeting this cycle that appears to contribute to heightened psychological distress among offspring of those who were directly victimized by collective race-based traumas.

In Alzheimer's disease (AD), synaptic alterations play a major role and are often correlated with cognitive changes. In order to better understand synaptic modifications, we compared alterations in NMDA receptors and postsynaptic protein PSD-95 expression in the entorhinal cortex (EC) and frontal cortex (FC; area 9) of AD and control brains. We combined immunohistochemical and image analysis methods to quantify on consecutive sections the distribution of PSD-95 and NMDA receptors GluN1, GluN2A and GluN2B in EC and FC from 25 AD and control cases. The density of stained receptors was analyzed using multivariate statistical methods to assess the effect of neurodegeneration. In both regions, the number of neuronal profiles immunostained for GluN1 receptors subunit and PSD-95 protein was significantly increased in AD compared to controls (3-6 fold), while the number of neuronal profiles stained for GluN2A and GluN2B receptors subunits was on the contrary decreased (3-4 fold). The increase in marked neuronal profiles was more prominent in a cortical band corresponding to layers 3 to 5 with large pyramidal cells. Neurons positive for GluN1 or PSD-95 staining were often found in the same localization on consecutive sections and they were also reactive for the anti-tau antibody AD2, indicating a neurodegenerative process. Differences in the density of immunoreactive puncta representing neuropile were not statistically significant. Altogether these data indicate that GluN1 and PSD-95 accumulate in the neuronal perikarya, but this is not the case for GluN2A and GluN2B, while the neuropile compartment is less subject to modifications. Thus, important variations in the pattern of distribution of the NMDA receptors subunits and PSD-95 represent a marker in AD and by impairing the neuronal network, contribute to functional deterioration.

The biochemical activities of plant flavonoids and stilbenoids point to many health-related applications, hampered however by a low bioavailability associated with rapid metabolic modification. A possible approach to overcome this obstacle is the development of prodrugs. In this review we provide some background information and summarize the efforts made so far to obtain suitable precursors of the two best known model polyphenols belonging to the classes just mentioned, quercetin and resveratrol. Prodrug design needs to take into account two key aspects: the nature of the chemical bond linking the core molecule to the protecting substituent, and the substituent itself, which can impart desirable physico-chemical properties. Only recently a systematic study of the several possible combinations has begun. Most bond systems tested so far appear to be either too stable or too unstable under physiological conditions. A range of substituent moieties is available, allowing the modulation of properties such as water solubility and the ability to permeate biomembranes. Work so far has been largely performed in vitro, and more in vivo experiments are definitely needed for a reliable assessment of the potentialities of the classes of prodrugs produced so far and of those still awaiting creation.

Serotonin and its various receptors are involved in numerous brain functions and neuropsychiatric disorders. The 5-HT1A family is the best characterized subtype of the fourteen currently known 5-HT receptors. The 5-HT1A receptor is closely involved in the pathogenesis of anxiety, depression, epilepsy and eating disorders and therefore is an important target for drug therapy. The development in the 1980s of molecules specifically targeting this receptor was followed by the rapid development of corresponding PET neuroimaging. Because this receptor represents a crucial target in neuroscience, a large number of radioligands have been developed by academic and industry centers for visualization and quantification, first in living animals and ultimately in humans. After a brief account of some of the structural and functional characteristics of brain 5-HT1A receptors, this review focuses on the main lines of evolution opened up by preclinical and clinical 5-HT1A PET radiopharmaceuticals, illustrating the potential value of PET for clinical research and drug development.
Mozart's music has been shown to have promising effects on nervous system functions. In this study, the effects of Mozart's work on epilepsy were reviewed. Articles were obtained from a variety of sources. The results of 12 studies were extracted. Three different meta-analyses were performed to examine (i) the percentage of patients who had changes in their interictal epileptic discharges (IEDs) by music therapy; and the changes of IEDs (ii) during and (iii) after exposure to Mozart's music. Data analysis indicated that 84% of patients listening to Mozart's music showed a significant decrease in IEDs. In addition, IEDs were decreased during (31.24%) and after (23.74%) listening to Mozart's compositions. A noteworthy response to music therapy in patients with a higher intelligence quotient, generalized or central discharges, and idiopathic epilepsy was demonstrated. The effect of Mozart's music on epilepsy seems to be significant. However, more randomized control studies are needed to determine its clinical efficacy.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a serious mental disorder that ranks among the major causes of disease burden. Standard medical treatment targeting cerebral monoamines often provides only insufficient symptom relief and fails in approximately every fifth patient. The complexity of MDD therefore, reflects more than monoaminergic dysregulation. Initial research argues the case for excessive glutamate levels, suggesting that antiglutamatergic drugs might be useful in treating MDD. Ketamine is a non-selective, high-affinity N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist most commonly used in pediatric and animal surgery. In the past, ketamine has gained popularity because of its ability to rapidly elevate mood, even in treatment-resistant and bipolar depression. However, there are still many obstacles before widespread clinical approval of ketamine treatment could become reality. In this review, ketamine's powerful antidepressant effects are discussed and further research necessary for therapeutic application is outlined. NMDAR antagonists provide an entirely new way of treating the manifold appearances of depression that should not be left unused.
The purines ATP and adenosine are widely recognized for their neuromodulatory effects. They have been shown to have effects on neurons via various receptors and interactions with glial cells. In particular, long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal slice preparations has been found to be modulated by ATP and adenosine. This review gives an overview of purinergic signaling in relation to hippocampal LTP and memory formation. The data supports the hypothesis that adenosine mediates a tonic suppression of synaptic transmission. Thus, low adenosine levels appear to increase basal synaptic activity via a decreased activation of the inhibitor A1 receptor, consequently making it more difficult to induce LTP because of lower contrast. During high stimulation, the inhibition of neighboring pathways by adenosine, in combination with an A2a receptor activation, appears to increase contrast of excited pathways against a nonexcited background. This would enable amplification of specific signaling while suppressing non-specific events. Although a clear role for purinergic signaling in LTP is evident, more studies are needed to scrutinize the modulatory role of ATP and adenosine and their receptors in synaptic plasticity and memory.





Chronic migraine (CM) is a subtype of migraine broadly defined by the presence of headache at least 15days per month. Emerging evidence suggests that CM and episodic migraine (EM) differ not only in headache frequency, but that they are distinct clinical entities. Because individuals with CM are more disabled, they demonstrate higher societal burden than those with EM. There have been three important surveys published within the last five years that have focused on the societal burden associated with CM. The first is the American Migraine Prevalence and Prevention (AMPP) study, a longitudinal population-based survey performed in the U.S. The second, the International Burden Migraine Study (IBMS), is a Web-based survey conducted in North America, Western Europe, Asia/Pacific, and Brazil. The third is a clinic-based survey performed in Taiwan. This review discusses results of these studies with regard to healthcare resource use (and related direct costs) and loss of productivity (and related indirect costs) from the perspective of cost-effectiveness of new therapeutic approaches to CM.
In the oral cavity, taste receptor cells dedicate to detecting chemical compounds in foodstuffs and transmitting their signals to gustatory nerve fibers. Heretofore, five taste qualities (sweet, umami, bitter, salty and sour) are generally accepted as basic tastes. Each of these may have a specific role in the detection of nutritious and poisonous substances; sweet for carbohydrate sources of calories, umami for protein and amino acid contents, bitter for harmful compounds, salty for minerals and sour for ripeness of fruits and spoiled foods. Recent studies have revealed molecular mechanisms for reception and transduction of these five basic tastes. Sweet, umami and bitter tastes are mediated by G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and second-messenger signaling cascades. Salty and sour tastes are mediated by channel-type receptors. In addition to five basic tastes, taste receptor cells may have the ability to detect fat taste, which is elicited by fatty acids, and calcium taste, which is elicited by calcium. Taste compounds eliciting either fat taste or calcium taste may be detected by specific GPCRs expressed in taste receptor cells. This review will focus on transduction mechanisms and cellular characteristics responsible for each of basic tastes, fat taste and calcium taste.
Despite decades of research, therapy for diseases caused by abnormal protein folding and aggregation (amyloidoses) is limited to treatment of symptoms and provides only temporary and moderate relief to sufferers. The failure in developing successful diseasemodifying drugs for amyloidoses stems from the nature of the targets for such drugs - primarily oligomers of amyloidogenic proteins, which are distinct from traditional targets, such as enzymes or receptors. The oligomers are metastable, do not have well-defined structures, and exist in dynamically changing mixtures. Therefore, inhibiting the formation and toxicity of these oligomers likely will require out-of-the-box thinking and novel strategies. We review here the development of a strategy based on targeting the combination of hydrophobic and electrostatic interactions that are key to the assembly and toxicity of amyloidogenic proteins using lysine (K)-specific &quot;molecular tweezers&quot; (MTs). Our discussion includes a survey of the literature demonstrating the important role of K residues in the assembly and toxicity of amyloidogenic proteins and the development of a lead MT derivative called CLR01, from an inhibitor of protein aggregation in vitro to a drug candidate showing effective amelioration of disease symptoms in animal models of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
Sex-dependent differences are frequently observed in the biological and behavioural effects of substances of abuse, including cannabis. We recently demonstrated a modulating effect of sex and oestrous cycle on cannabinoid-taking and seeking behaviours. Here, we investigated the influence of sex and oestrogen in the regulation of cannabinoid CB1 receptor density and function, measured by [(3)H]CP55940 and CP55940-stimulated [(35)S]GTPS binding autoradiography, respectively, in the prefrontal cortex (Cg1 and Cg3), caudate- putamen, nucleus accumbens, amygdala and hippocampus of male and cycling female rats, as well as ovariectomised (OVX) rats and OVX rats primed with oestradiol (10 g/rat) (OVX+E). CB1 receptor density was significantly lower in the prefrontal cortex and amygdala of cycling females than in males and in OVX females, a difference that appeared to be oestradiol-dependent, because it was no more evident in the OVX+E group. CP55940-stimulated [(35)S]GTPS binding was significantly higher in the Cg3 of OVX rats relative to cycling and OVX+E rats. No difference was observed in CB1 receptor density or function in any of the other brain areas analysed. Finally, sex and oestradiol were also found to affect motor activity, social behaviour and sensorimotor gating in rats tested in locomotor activity boxes, social interaction and prepulse inhibition tasks, respectively. Our findings provide biochemical evidence for sex- and hormone- dependent differences in the density and function of CB1 receptors in selected brain regions, and in behaviours associated with greater vulnerability to drug addiction, revealing a more vulnerable behavioural phenotype in female than in male rats.
The endocannabinoid system has been implicated in the regulation of a variety of physiological processes, including a crucial involvement in brain reward systems and the regulation of motivational processes. Behavioral studies have shown that cannabinoid reward may involve the same brain circuits and similar brain mechanisms with other drugs of abuse, such as nicotine, cocaine, alcohol and heroin, as well as natural rewards, such as food, water and sucrose, although the conditions under which cannabinoids exert their rewarding effects may be more limited. The purpose of the present review is to briefly describe and evaluate the behavioral and pharmacological research concerning the major components of the endocannabinoid system and reward processes. Special emphasis is placed on data received from four procedures used to test the effects of the endocannabinoid system on brain reward in animals; namely, the intracranial self-stimulation paradigm, the self-administration procedure, the conditioned place preference procedure and the drug-discrimination procedure. The effects of cannabinoid 1 (CB1) and cannabinoid 2 (CB2) receptor agonists, antagonists and endocannabinoid modulators in these procedures are examined. Further, the involvement of CB1 and CB2 receptors, as well the fatty acid amid hydrolase (FAAH) enzyme in reward processes is investigated through presentation of respective genetic ablation studies in mice. We suggest that the endocannabinoid system plays a major role in modulating motivation and reward processes. Further research will provide us with a better understanding of these processes and, thus, could lead to the development of potential therapeutic compounds for the treatment of rewardrelated disorders.
The endocannabinoid system has long been known as a modulator of several physiological functions, among which the homeostatic and hedonic aspects of eating. CB1 receptors are widely expressed in brain regions that control food intake, reward and energy balance. Animal and human studies indicate that CB1 receptor agonists possess orexigenic effects enhancing appetite and increasing the rewarding value of food. Conversely, CB1 antagonists have been shown to inhibit the intake of food. Eating disorders include a range of chronic and disabling related pathological illnesses that are characterized by aberrant patterns of feeding behaviour and weight regulation, and by abnormal attitudes and perceptions toward body shape image. The psychological and biological factors underlying eating disorders are complex and not yet completely understood. However in the last decades, converging evidence have led to hypothesise a link between defects in the endocannabinoid system and eating disorders, including obesity. Here we review the neurochemical and behavioural preclinical evidence supporting the role of the endocannabinoid system in eating disorders to offer the reader an update regarding the state of the art. Despite the recent withdrawal from the market of rimonabant for treating obesity and overweight individuals with metabolic complications due to its psychiatric side effects, preclinical findings support the rationale for the clinical development of drug which modulate the endocannabinoid system in the treatment of eating disorders.
Cannabis is the most widely used illicit drug worldwide, though it is unclear whether its regular use is associated with persistent alterations in brain morphology. This review examines evidence from human structural neuroimaging investigations of regular cannabis users and focuses on achieving three main objectives. These include examining whether the literature to date provides evidence that alteration of brain morphology in regular cannabis users: i) is apparent, compared to non-cannabis using controls; ii) is associated with patterns of cannabis use; and with iii) measures of psychopathology and neurocognitive performance. The published findings indicate that regular cannabis use is associated with alterations in medial temporal, frontal and cerebellar brain regions. Greater brain morphological alterations were evident among samples that used at higher doses for longer periods. However, the evidence for an association between brain morphology and cannabis use parameters was mixed. Further, there is poor evidence for an association between measures of brain morphology and of psychopathology symptoms/neurocognitive performance. Overall, numerous methodological issues characterize the literature to date. These include investigation of small sample sizes, heterogeneity across studies in sample characteristics (e.g., sex, comorbidity) and in employed imaging techniques, as well as the examination of only a limited number of brain regions. These factors make it difficult to draw firm conclusions from the existing findings. Nevertheless, this review supports the notion that regular cannabis use is associated with alterations of brain morphology, and highlights the need to consider particular methodological issues when planning future cannabis research.
Polyphenols contained in FGM from Negroamaro (N) and Koshu (K) Vitis vinifera have been shown to exhibit several immunomodulating activities. For instance, mice affected by experimental colitis when administered with K-FGM showed an attenuation of the inflammatory process. In murine asthma, K-FGM reduced IgE production and eosinophil number in bronchial alveolar lavage fluid. In vitro, both N- and K-FGM were able to induce T regulatory cells in terms of Foxp-3 molecule expression and release of interleukin-10. In another set of experiments both N- and K-FGM were able to balance rate of proliferation/apoptosis/necrosis of normal human peripheral lymphocytes, thus indicating the property of these compounds to maintain immune homeostatic mechanisms in the host. On the other hand, N- and K-FGM inhibited human basophil degranulation, thus, confirming our previous results obtained with rat basophilic leukemia cells. Finally, N- and K-FGM also decreased oxidative burst of human polymorphonuclear cells and monocytes.Taken together, these findings imply the potential clinical usefulness of FGM administration in inflammatory/allergic conditions, such as chronic asthma.
Human ageing is characterized by several abnormalities of both innate and adaptive immune responses, thus leading to an increased frequency of infectious, inflammatory, allergic and autoimmune diseases. In elderly patients, among allergic diseases, asthma is a very common pathological event which complicates the dysfunction of many systems. Among a variety of natural products used to modulate the altered immune response, polyphenols have been shown to exert antiinflammatory activities in both young and aged persons. Here, special emphasis will be given to the the immune-modulating effects of Leucoselect Phytosome (a dietary supplement enriched in the flavonoid epigallocatechin) administered to frail elderly patients. Leucoselect Phytosome was able to upregulate the T helper (Th)1 response [increase in serum concentrations of interleukin (IL)-2 and interferon-]. On the other hand, IL-4 serum levels, as an index of Th2 function, fluctuated within normal ranges. Quite interestingly, in this cohort of frail aged patients from South Italy the balance between inflammation (IL-17) and anti-inflammation (IL-10) was preserved, thus suggesting that the Mediterranean diet might have been involved in the observed effects. In conclusion, these data support the ability of Leucoselect Phytosome to induce up-regulation of Th1 responses in frail elderly patients which may be beneficial in those patients affected by chronic allergic disorders.
Resveratrol derivatives bearing an O-linked mitochondria-targeting 4-triphenylphosphoniumbutyl group at either position 3 or position 4' are prooxidant and cytotoxic for cultured cells, selectively killing fast-growing cells when supplied in the low M range. Resveratrol is essentially without effect under these experimental conditions, while the cytotoxicity of the mitochondriotropic derivatives increases if they are methylated on the remaining hydroxyls. Experiments with Bax(-/-)/Bak(-/-) cells and a pan-caspase inhibitor show that cell death is mostly of the necrotic type. Cytotoxicity is due to ROS produced upon accumulation of the compounds into mitochondria, and specifically to H2O2, since externally added membrane-permeant catalase largely prevents cell death while superoxide dismutase potentiates toxicity. The mitochondriotropic compounds cause ROS-independent depolarization of in situ mitochondria. Effectiveness is increased if resveratrol hydroxyls are acetylated or methylated; this excludes the involvement of autooxidation of the polyphenolic nucleus and a protonophoric cycle as the causes of ROS generation and of depolarization, respectively. Resveratrol-triphenylphosphonium conjugates may thus represent a new class of chemotherapeutic agents, redox-active &quot;mitocans&quot;, whose mechanisms of action and in vivo activity are worthy of further investigation.
During sensitive periods, information from the external and internal environment that occurs during particular phases of development is relayed to the brain to program neural development. Hormones play a central role in this process. In this review, we first discuss sexual differentiation of the brain as an example of hormonal programming. Using sexual differentiation, we define sensitive periods, review cellular and molecular processes that can explain their restricted temporal window, and discuss challenges in determining the precise timing of the temporal window. We then briefly review programming effects of other hormonal systems and discuss how programming of these systems interact with sexual differentiation.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is an early onset neurodevelopmental disorder marked by impairments in reciprocal social interaction, communication, and the presence of repetitive or restricted interests and behaviors. Despite great phenotypic heterogeneity and etiologic diversity in ASD, social dysfunction is the unifying feature of ASD. This chapter focuses on understanding the neural systems involved in the processing of social information and its disruption in ASD by reviewing the conceptual background and highlighting some recent advances. In addition, work investigating an alternative interpretation of autistic dysfunction, problems with interconnectivity, and consequent difficulties with complex information processing are addressed.
Social play behavior is the most vigorous and characteristic form of social interaction displayed by developing mammals. The laboratory rat is an ideal species to study this behavior, since it shows ample social play that can be easily recognized and quantified. In this chapter, we will first briefly describe the structure of social play behavior in rats. Next, we will discuss studies that used social isolation rearing during the period in life when social play is most abundant to investigate the developmental functions of social play behavior in rats, focusing on the consequences of play deprivation on social, cognitive, emotional, and sensorimotor development. Last, we will discuss the neural substrates of social play behavior in rats, with emphasis on the limbic corticostriatal circuits that underlie emotions and their influence on behavior.
Emotional dysregulation is a core feature of pediatric mood and anxiety disorders. Emerging evidence suggests that these disorders are mediated by abnormalities in the functions and structures of the developing brain. This chapter reviews recent behavioral and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) research on pediatric mood and anxiety disorders, focusing on the neural mechanisms underlying these disorders. Throughout the chapter, we highlight the relationship between neural and behavioral findings, and potential novel treatments. The chapter concludes with directions for future research.
Over the last two decades, there have been numerous technical and methodological advances available to clinicians and researchers to better understand attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and its etiology. Despite the growing body of literature investigating the disorder's pathophysiology, ADHD remains a complex psychiatric disorder to characterize. This chapter will briefly review the literature on ADHD, with a focus on its history, the current genetic insights, neurophysiologic theories, and the use of neuroimaging to further understand the etiology. We address some of the major concerns that remain unclear about ADHD, including subtype instability, heterogeneity, and the underlying neural correlates that define the disorder. We highlight that the field of ADHD is rapidly evolving; the descriptions provided here will hopefully provide a sturdy foundation for which to build and improve our understanding of the disorder.
The disruptive behavior disorders include Conduct Disorder (CD), Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD), and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). These disorders are highly comorbid with each other as well as with mood and anxiety disorders and personality disorders (particularly borderline personality disorder). The goal of this chapter is to consider these disorders from an RDoC(ish) approach. In other words, we will outline four functional processes and the behavioral implications of dysfunction within these processes. Moreover, we will briefly consider how dysfunction in one might increase the risk for the development of rather different behavioral problems that have been previously associated with rather different disorders. Our goal is to identify neurocognitive-based functional targets for treatment.
The connectivity of neuronal systems is their most fundamental characteristic. Here, we focus on recent developments in understanding structural and functional connectivity at the macroscale, which is accessible with current imaging technology. Structural connectivity is examined via diffusion weighted imaging methods, of which diffusion tensor imaging is the most frequently used. Many cross-sectional and an increasing number of longitudinal studies using diffusion tensor imaging have been recently conducted over the period of development starting with newborns. Functional connectivity has been studied through task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging, and increasingly through studies on task-free functional imaging, also known as resting state functional imaging. The study of intrinsic functional connectivity beginning during fetal life reveals the developmental organization of intrinsic connectivity networks such as the default mode network, the dorsal attention network, the frontal-parietal executive control network, as well as primary cortical networks. As methods of examining both structural and functional connectivity mature, they increasingly inform our understanding of the development of connectivity in service of the long-term goal of delineating the substrates of much of developmental psychopathology.
This article describes the unique industrial-academic collaboration that has been running for four years between Janssen Pharmaceutica NV and the Vanderbilt Center for Neuroscience Drug Discovery (VCNDD) towards identifying the next generation of schizophrenia therapeutics. This was a true collaboration, with both entities engaged in chemistry, In vitro pharmacology, DMPK and In vivo behavioral pharmacology, and aligned to deliver a first-in-class clinical candidate (NME) and additional back-up molecules. Notably, a first NME was delivered in a rapid timeframe and targeted the novel mechanism of mGlu5 positive allosteric modulation. As with any true collaboration, both sides brought unique skills to the table--Janssen leveraged deep drug discovery expertise and infrastructure, while Vanderbilt brought deep knowledge of the chemistry and pharmacology of the target in addition to the ability to provide deep scientific insight into the mechanism behind target modulation. In this article, we will discuss the science which drove our collaboration as well as some key lessons learned.
The zwitterionic lysophospholipid Sphingosine 1-Phosphate (S1P) is a pleiotropic mediator of physiology and pathology. The synthesis, transport, and degradation of S1P are tightly regulated to ensure that S1P is present in the proper concentrations in the proper location. The binding of S1P to five G protein-coupled S1P receptors regulates many physiological systems, particularly the immune and vascular systems. Our understanding of the functions of S1P has been aided by the tractability of the system to both chemical and genetic manipulation. Chemical modulators have been generated to affect most of the known components of S1P biology, including agonists of S1P receptors and inhibitors of enzymes regulating S1P production and degradation. Genetic knockouts and manipulations have been similarly engineered to disrupt the functions of individual S1P receptors or enzymes involved in S1P metabolism. This chapter will focus on the development and utilization of these chemical and genetic tools to explore the complex biology surrounding S1P and its receptors, with particular attention paid to the in vivo findings that these tools have allowed for.
Several antiangiogenic mechanisms have been proposed for the widely-used cancer chemotherapeutic drugs taxotere (docetaxel) and taxol (paclitaxel), but none has been definitively identified. We analyzed their effects at a range of concentrations on migration and mitosis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) on microtubule and focal adhesion morphology and microtubule dynamic instability during migration. Both taxanes inhibited migration by inhibiting both maintenance of the forward direction of the cell and by slowing migration over the entire contorted path length. At low (but not all) taxane concentrations that inhibit HUVEC migration, the shortening rates and shortening lengths of microtubules at the leading edge were strongly inhibited; peripheral microtubules were reduced in number and fewer targeted focal adhesions; focal adhesions doubled in length and became ring-shaped, elongate, and reduced in number; and an increase in stabilized microtubules occurred centrally. HUVEC migration was 13-19-fold more sensitive to taxanes than was mitosis confirming that taxanes exhibit significant effects in addition to mitotic arrest that may contribute to their overall antitumor effects. No relationship was detected between centrosome position and migration characteristics. The data suggest that taxanes inhibit migration, at least in part, by inhibiting the dynamic instability of microtubules that possibly interact with guanine nucleotide exchange factors and thus with the focal adhesion-associated G-proteins that then lead to disruption of the regulated formation and turnover of focal adhesions. A mechanism is presented by which subcytotoxic concentrations of taxanes might stabilize dynamic instability of a few microtubules and thereby inhibit migration and angiogenesis.
Salvia macilenta is a member of the genus Salvia (Laminaceae) whose antioxidant activity and neuroprotective effect has been shown previously. The present study aimed to examine the antiglycating and antiapoptotic abilities of methanolic extract of this plant. Moreover, the effect of S. macilenta on neurite outgrowth and complexity after exposure to H2O2 has been studied. Base on our results, S. macilenta has antiglycating activity and protects PC12 cells against oxidative stress-induced apoptotic cell death, as examined by Hoechst staining and Western blot analysis of caspase-3, Bax, Bcl-2 and PARP. We further showed that S. macilenta decreased neurite growth and complexity impairment in differentiated PC12 cells exposed to oxidative stress. It caused a decrease in cell body area, neurite width, and the proportion of bipolar cells, while significantly increasing neurite length, the number of primary neurites per cell and the ratio of nodes to primary neuritis. All around, the mentioned results open a new horizon for future works to use this plant as a potential neuroprotective agent.


This study examined cortisol and affective reactivity to a psychosocial stress task in 102 young adults who varied in risk for depression (56 remitted depressed, 46 never depressed). Participants were randomly assigned to either a stress (i.e., social-evaluative threat) or control (i.e., no social-evaluative threat) condition. For never-depressed individuals, cortisol responses were significantly greater in the stress compared to the control condition. Moreover, cortisol responses were significantly greater for never-depressed than remitted-depressed individuals in the stress condition. For individuals with a history of depression, cortisol responses did not differ significantly between the stress and control conditions. Negative affective reactivity also was higher for never depressed, but not remitted depressed, individuals in the stress compared to the control condition. Moreover, cortisol responses were inversely related to negative affect during the recovery phase in both stress and control conditions. Findings indicate the lack of a robust cortisol response to social evaluation stress among remitted-depressed individuals as compared to that of never-depressed controls. Future studies should investigate unique and interactive links between these hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal and affective reactivity alterations and risk for subsequent depressive episodes.
Objective. To evaluate leukocyte gene expression for 9 selected genes (mRNAs) as biological markers in patients with medication refractory depression before and after treatment with ECT or isoflurane anesthesia (ISO). Methods. In a substudy of a nonrandomized open-label trial comparing effects of ECT to ISO therapy, blood samples were obtained before and after treatment from 22 patients with refractory depression, and leukocyte mRNA was assessed by quantitative PCR. Patients' mRNAs were also compared to 17 healthy controls. Results. Relative to controls, patients before treatment showed significantly higher IL10 and DBI and lower ADRA2A and ASIC3 mRNA (P &lt; 0.025). Both ECT and ISO induced significant decreases after treatment in 4 genes: IL10, NR3C1, DRD4, and Sult1A1. After treatment, patients' DBI, ASIC3, and ADRA2A mRNA remained dysregulated. Conclusion. Significant differences from controls and/or significant changes after ECT or ISO treatment were observed for 7 of the 9 mRNAs studied. Decreased expression of 4 genes after effective treatment with either ECT or ISO suggests possible overlap of underlying mechanisms. Three genes showing dysregulation before and after treatment may be trait-like biomarkers of medication refractory depression. Gene expression for these patients has the potential to facilitate diagnosis, clarify pathophysiology, and identify potential biomarkers for treatment effects.
The purpose of this study was to expand our understanding of the range of negative affect associated with reported problems with everyday functions and activities, measured by the cognitive failures questionnaire (CFQ). Evidence from previous research indicates that individuals meeting criteria for mood disorders, such as major depression or seasonal affective disorder, experience cognitive deficits in memory and attention that can lead to problems with everyday activities reported in the CFQ. The Positive and Negative Affect Scale (PANAS) was used to assess potential correlations with a wider range of negative emotions. Findings for a sample of 129 college students revealed that negative affective experiences were significantly correlated with failures of memory and attention on the CFQ (fear = .41, hostility = .38, sadness = .28, and guilt = .43). Conversely, positive affect was negatively correlated with distractibility (r = -.21). Additional affective scales on the PANAS (e.g., shyness and fatigue) were also associated with higher reports of cognitive failures. The results provide converging evidence of a relationship between negative affective experiences and reported frequency of problems on the cognitive failures questionnaire.
Human brain function undergoes complex transformations across the lifespan. We employed resting-state functional MRI and graph-theory approaches to systematically chart the lifespan trajectory of the topological organization of human whole-brain functional networks in 126 healthy individuals ranging in age from 7 to 85 years. Brain networks were constructed by computing Pearson's correlations in blood-oxygenation-level-dependent temporal fluctuations among 1024 parcellation units followed by graph-based network analyses. We observed that the human brain functional connectome exhibited highly preserved non-random modular and rich club organization over the entire age range studied. Further quantitative analyses revealed linear decreases in modularity and inverted-U shaped trajectories of local efficiency and rich club architecture. Regionally heterogeneous age effects were mainly located in several hubs (e.g., default network, dorsal attention regions). Finally, we observed inverse trajectories of long- and short-distance functional connections, indicating that the reorganization of connectivity concentrates and distributes the brain's functional networks. Our results demonstrate topological changes in the whole-brain functional connectome across nearly the entire human lifespan, providing insights into the neural substrates underlying individual variations in behavior and cognition. These results have important implications for disease connectomics because they provide a baseline for evaluating network impairments in age-related neuropsychiatric disorders.
Exercise has been shown to have positive effects on the brain and behavior throughout various stages of the lifespan. However, little is known about the impact of exercise on neurodevelopment during the adolescent years, particularly with regard to white matter microstructure, as assessed by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Both tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) and tractography-based along-tract statistics were utilized to examine the relationship between white matter microstructure and aerobic exercise in adolescent males, ages 15-18. Furthermore, we examined the data by both (1) grouping individuals based on aerobic fitness self-reports (high fit (HF) vs. low fit (LF)), and (2) using VO2 peak as a continuous variable across the entire sample. Results showed that HF youth had an overall higher number of streamline counts compared to LF peers, which was driven by group differences in corticospinal tract (CST) and anterior corpus callosum (Fminor). In addition, VO2 peak was negatively related to FA in the left CST. Together, these results suggest that aerobic fitness relates to white matter connectivity and microstructure in tracts carrying frontal and motor fibers during adolescence. Furthermore, the current study highlights the importance of considering the environmental factor of aerobic exercise when examining adolescent brain development.
Gene-targeted mutant animals, such as knockout or knockin mice, have dramatically improved our understanding of the functions of genes in vivo and the genetic diversity that characterizes health and disease. However, the generation of targeted mice relies on gene targeting in embryonic stem (ES) cells, which is a time-consuming, laborious, and expensive process. The recent groundbreaking development of several genome editing technologies has enabled the targeted alteration of almost any sequence in any cell or organism. These technologies have now been applied to mouse zygotes (in vivo genome editing), thereby providing new avenues for simple, convenient, and ultra-rapid production of knockout or knockin mice without the need for ES cells. Here, we review recent achievements in the production of gene-targeted mice by in vivo genome editing.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate; it originally comes from the Atlantic coastal forests in northeastern Brazil. It has been attracting much attention in the biomedical research field because of its size, availability, and unique biological characteristics. Its endocrinological and behavioral similarity to humans, comparative ease in handling, and high reproductive efficiency are very advantageous for neuroscience research. Recently, we developed transgenic common marmosets with germline transmission, and this technological breakthrough provides a potential paradigm shift by enabling researchers to investigate complex biological phenomena using genetically-modified non-human primates. In this review, we summarize recent progress in marmoset research, and also discuss a potential application of genome editing tools that should be useful toward the generation of knock-out/knock-in marmoset models.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a group of heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorders that show impaired communication and socialization, restricted interests, and stereotypical behavioral patterns. Recent advances in molecular medicine and high throughput screenings, such as array comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) and exome and whole genome sequencing, have revealed both novel insights and new questions about the nature of this spectrum of disorders. What has emerged is a better understanding about the genetic architecture of various genetic subtypes of ASD and correlations of genetic mutations with specific autism subtypes. Based on this new information, we outline a strategy for advancing diagnosis, prognosis, and counseling for patients and families.
Less than 60% of infants undergoing invasive procedures in the neonatal intensive care unit receive analgesic therapy. These infants show long-term decreases in pain sensitivity and cortisol reactivity. In rats, we have previously shown that inflammatory pain experienced on the day of birth significantly decreases adult somatosensory thresholds and responses to anxiety- and stress-provoking stimuli. These long-term changes in pain and stress responsiveness are accompanied by two-fold increases in central met-enkephalin and -endorphin expression. However, the time course over which these changes in central opioid peptide expression occur, relative to the time of injury, are not known. The present studies were conducted to determine whether the observed changes in adult opioid peptide expression were present within the first postnatal week following injury. The impact of neonatal inflammation on plasma corticosterone, a marker for stress reactivity, was also determined. Brain, spinal cord, and trunk blood were harvested at 24 h, 48 h, and 7 d following intraplantar administration of the inflammatory agent carrageenan on the day of birth. Radioimmunoassay was used to determine plasma corticosterone and met-enkephalin and -endorphin levels within the forebrain, cortex, midbrain, and spinal cord. Within 24 h of injury, met-enkephalin levels were significantly increased in the midbrain, but decreased in the spinal cord and cortex; forebrain -endorphin levels were significantly increased as a result of early life pain. Corticosterone levels were also significantly increased. At 7 d post-injury, opioid peptides remained elevated relative to controls, suggesting a time point by which injury-induced changes become programmed and permanent.
Autism is thought to be a neurodevelopmental disorder with symptoms developing during neonatal neurogenesis in the subventricular zone (SVZ). Autism associated genes alter SVZ proliferation and cytoarchitecture, yet the response of the human SVZ in autism is unknown. Epilepsy drives neurogenesis in rodents, but it is unclear how epilepsy interacts with autism in SVZ responses. The striatal and septal SVZ derive from separate lineages in rodents and generate different interneuron types. Yet it is unclear if autism unevenly regulates the striatal and septal SVZ. The human SVZ was immunohistochemically examined post-mortem from individuals with autism (n = 11) and controls (n = 11). Autism showed a lower cell density in the septal, but not striatal, SVZ hypocellular gap only in the absence of epilepsy. There was a decline in septal hypocellular gap cells with age in autism, but no correlation with age in controls. In contrast, PCNA+ cell numbers increased only in autism with epilepsy both in the hypocellular gap and in the ependymal layer on the septal but not striatal side. Ependymal cells also became GFAP immunoreactive in autism irrespective of epilepsy co-morbidity; however, this only occurred on the striatal side. In examining these questions we also discovered a subset of ependymal, astrocyte ribbon and RMS cells which express PCNA and Ki67, PLP, and -tubulin. These results are the first example of a neuropsychiatric disease differentially affecting the septal and striatal SVZ. Altered cell density in the hypocellular gap and proliferation marker expression suggest individuals with autism may follow a different growth-trajectory.
Ca(2+) influx through voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels and its feedback regulation by Ca(2+) -activated K(+) (BK) channels is critical in Ca(2+) -dependent cellular processes, including synaptic transmission, growth and homeostasis. Here we report differential roles of cacophony (CaV 2) and Dmca1D (CaV 1) Ca(2+) channels in synaptic transmission and in synaptic homeostatic regulations induced by slowpoke (slo) BK channel mutations. At Drosophila larval neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), a well-established homeostatic mechanism of transmitter release enhancement is triggered by experimentally suppressing postsynaptic receptor response. In contrast, a distinct homeostatic adjustment is induced by slo mutations. To compensate for the loss of BK channel control presynaptic Sh K(+) current is upregulated to suppress transmitter release, coupled with a reduction in quantal size. We demonstrate contrasting effects of cac and Dmca1D channels in decreasing transmitter release and muscle excitability, respectively, consistent with their predominant pre- vs. postsynaptic localization. Antibody staining indicated reduced postsynaptic GluRII receptor subunit density and altered ratio of GluRII A and B subunits in slo NMJs, leading to quantal size reduction. Such slo-triggered modifications were suppressed in cac;;slo larvae, correlated with a quantal size reversion to normal in double mutants, indicating a role of cac Ca(2+) channels in slo-triggered homeostatic processes. In Dmca1D;slo double mutants, the quantal size and quantal content were not drastically different from those of slo, although Dmca1D suppressed the slo-induced satellite bouton overgrowth. Taken together, cac and Dmca1D Ca(2+) channels differentially contribute to functional and structural aspects of slo-induced synaptic modifications.
Linguistics, psychology, and neuroscience all have rich histories in language research. Crosstalk among these disciplines, as realized in studies of phonology, is pivotal for understanding a fundamental challenge for first and second language learners (SLLs): learning verbs. Linguistic and behavioral research with monolinguals suggests that infants attend to foundational event components (e.g., path, manner). Language then heightens or dampens attention to these components as children map word to world in language-specific ways. Cross-linguistic differences in semantic organization also reveal sources of struggles for SLLs. We discuss how better integrating neuroscience into this literature can unlock additional mysteries of verb learning.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with multiple neuropsychological deficits and the present study aimed to investigate to what extent these deficits are related to the functional impairments associated with the disorder. The results showed that all executive functioning deficits and reaction time variability acted as mediators in the relation between ADHD and academic achievement. However, only the effect of working memory for language skills, and the effects of reaction time variability and working memory for mathematics, remained significant when studying independent effects. Regulation of anger was a significant mediator for peer problems. Gender or symptoms of oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) or conduct disorder (CD) did not moderate these findings.
Perinatal stroke is a significant cause of congenital neurological disability. Although motor deficits and epilepsy are relatively easy to identify, developmental and behavioral co-morbidities are more complex and challenging to define. We provide an overview of perinatal stroke syndromes and theories relating injury in the developing brain to long-term outcomes. We present a comprehensive overview of the effects on intelligence and other specific cognitive domains, as well as investigations relating clinical features and neuroimaging to deficits. Better understanding of the impact of early stroke has potential to elucidate processes of brain development, in addition to providing guidance for prognosis and rehabilitation.
Previous research has shown sex differences in brain morphology ( De Bellis et al., 2001 ). However, these studies have not taken gender into account. Gender is a phenotype that describes behavior. In this study, we examined the relationship between gender, sex, and brain volumes in children. One hundred and eight children ages 7 to 17 were administered the Children's Sex Role Inventory ( Boldizar, 1991 ) and obtained volumetric brain data via magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We found that, in the frontal lobe, higher masculinity predicted greater volumes of white matter. Also, in the temporal lobe, higher femininity predicted greater volumes of gray matter.
Recreational drug use among pregnant women is a source of concern due to potential harmful effects of drug exposure on prenatal and infant development. The simultaneous abuse of ecstasy [3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)] and alcohol is prevalent among young adults, including young expectant mothers. Here, we used a rat model to study the potential risks associated with exposure to alcohol and MDMA during pregnancy. Pregnant rats received alcohol, MDMA, or both alcohol and MDMA by gavage at E13 through E15 twice daily. Female offspring treated prenatally with the combination of alcohol and MDMA, but not those exposed to either drug separately, showed at 3 months of age decreased exploratory activity and impaired working memory function. Prenatal treatment with the combination of alcohol and MDMA decreased proliferation of neuronal precursors in the adult dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, as measured by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine labelling, and adult neurogenesis, assessed by quantifying doublecortin expression. These results provide the first evidence that the simultaneous abuse of alcohol and ecstasy during pregnancy, even for short periods of time, may cause significant abnormalities in neurocognitive development.
Ocular diseases affect millions worldwide and dramatically influence the quality of life. Although much is known about ocular biology and disease pathologies, effective treatments are still lacking. The eye is well suited for application of emerging cell-based therapies. This chapter explores the development of stem cell-based treatments for age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a prevalent ocular disease in the elderly. Retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE), a cell type implicated in AMD, has been derived from both induced pluripotent stem cells and embryonic stem cells (ESC). Rapidly advancing research has generated various methods of RPE differentiation and several transplantation strategies. Clinical trials are already underway using suspensions of ESC-derived RPE and others are soon to follow. This chapter will provide an overview of current derivation and transplantation strategies for stem cell-derived RPE for the treatment of AMD and other related ocular diseases.
Patients treated for bilateral congenital cataract are later impaired on several hallmarks of adults' expertise with upright faces but report no problem with remembering faces. Here, we provide the first formal data on their face memory. We compared 12 adults with a history of visual deprivation from bilateral congenital cataracts to 24 age-matched controls with normal vision on their ability to recognize famous and recently learned faces, and on their subjective impression of their face memory. Bilateral congenital cataract patients demonstrated a prosopagnosic-like deficit, being slower and less accurate in recognizing both famous faces and recently learned faces, despite not differing on most questions about their impression of their face memory. Patients' results on three perceptual tasks (the composite face effect, the Benton test of recognizing faces through a change in point of view, and the Jane test of sensitivity to feature spacing) were also not correlated with their face memory deficits. These results suggest that early visual input is necessary not only for perceptual expertise in differentiating among unfamiliar upright faces, but also for normal accuracy in remembering the identity of individual faces.
Resting EEG asymmetry evident early in life is thought to bias affective behaviors and contribute to the development of psychopathology. However, it remains unclear at what stage of information processing this bias occurs. Asymmetry may serve as an afferent filter, modulating emotional reactivity to incoming stimuli; or as an efferent filter, modulating behavioral response tendencies under emotional conditions. This study examines 209 kindergarten children (M=6.03 years old) to test predictions put forth by the two models. Resting asymmetry was examined in conjunction with electrodermal and cardiac measures of physiological reactivity to four emotion-inducing film clips (fear, sad, happy, anger) and teacher ratings of psychopathology. Results confirm an association between increased right side cortical activation and internalizing symptom severity as well as left activation and externalizing symptom severity. Significant interactions between resting asymmetry and physiological reactivity to emotion indicate that physiological reactivity moderates the association between resting asymmetry and symptoms of psychopathology.
As previously shown, rats isolated from weaning develop abnormal social and aggressive behavior characterized by biting attacks targeting vulnerable body parts of opponents, reduced attack signaling, and increased defensive behavior despite increased attack counts. Here we studied whether this form of violent aggression could be reversed by resocialization in adulthood. During the first weak of resocialization, isolation-reared rats showed multiple social deficits including increased defensiveness and decreased huddling during sleep. Deficits were markedly attenuated in the second and third weeks. Despite improved social functioning in groups, isolated rats readily showed abnormal features of aggression in a resident-intruder test performed after the 3-week-long resocialization. Thus, post-weaning social isolation-induced deficits in prosocial behavior were eliminated by resocialization during adulthood, but abnormal aggression was resilient to this treatment. Findings are compared to those obtained in humans who suffered early social maltreatment, and who also show social deficits and dysfunctional aggression in adulthood.
This article introduces a special section on moral development. We claim that the field is now undergoing a resurgence of theoretical and methodological innovation after the eclipse of paradigmatic moral stage theory. Although research on prosocial development, moral emotions, and social domain theory has sustained interest in moral development, recent additional trends have contributed to its resurgence. This includes research in neuroscience, sociobiology, and social psychology; broad interest in moral-character education and virtues; and the appearance of recent handbooks and special journal issues. We review 3 broad possible future themes (early development, self and personality, and culture) of moral development research and introduce a set of new contributions in this special section as examples.
Over the past few decades, there has been extensive debate as to whether humans represent number abstractly and, if so, whether perceptual features of a set such as cumulative surface area or contour length are extracted more readily than number from the external world. Here we show that 7-month-old infants are sensitive to smaller ratio changes in number than cumulative area when each variable is tested separately and that infants prefer to look at number changes compared with area changes when the 2 variables are pitted directly against each other. Our results provide strong evidence that number is a more salient dimension to young infants than cumulative surface area and that infants' ability to discriminate sets on the basis of number is more finely tuned than their ability to discriminate sets on the basis of cumulative surface area.
Infants who have more power within the gamma frequency range at rest develop better language and cognitive abilities over their first 3years of life (Benasich etal., 2008). This positive trend may reflect the gradual increase in resting gamma power that peaks at about 4years (Takano &amp; Ogawa, 1998): infants further along the maturational curve may exhibit both increased resting gamma power and more advanced language and cognitive function. Similar to other neural characteristics such as synaptic density, resting gamma power subsequently decreases with further development into adulthood (Tierney, Strait, O'Connell &amp; Kraus, 2013). If previously reported relationships between resting gamma power and behavioral performance reflect variance in maturation, at least in part, negative correlations between resting gamma and behavior may predominate in later developmental stages, during which resting gamma activity is decreasing. We tested this prediction by examining resting gamma activity and language-dependent behavioral performance, reflected by a variety of reading-related tests, in adolescents between the ages of 14 and 15years. Consistent with our predictions, resting gamma power inversely related to every aspect of reading assessed (i.e. reading fluency, rapid naming, and basic reading proficiency). Our results suggest that resting gamma power acts as an index of maturational progress in adolescents.
Children learn the structure of the music of their culture similarly to how they learn the language to which they are exposed in their daily environment. Furthermore, as with language, children acquire this musical knowledge without formal instruction. Two critical aspects of musical pitch structure in Western tonal music are key membership (understanding which notes belong in a key and which do not) and harmony (understanding which notes combine to form chords and which notes and chords tend to follow others). The early developmental trajectory of the acquisition of this knowledge remains unclear, in part because of the difficulty of testing young children. In two experiments, we investigated 4- and 5-year-olds' enculturation to Western musical pitch using a novel age-appropriate and engaging behavioral task (Experiment 1) and electroencephalography (EEG; Experiment 2). In Experiment 1 we found behavioral evidence that 5-year-olds were sensitive to key membership but not to harmony, and no evidence that 4-year-olds were sensitive to either. However, in Experiment 2 we found neurophysiological evidence that 4-year-olds were sensitive to both key membership and harmony. Our results suggest that musical enculturation has a long developmental trajectory, and that children may have some knowledge of key membership and harmony before that knowledge can be expressed through explicit behavioral judgments.
The second messengers cAMP and cGMP modulate attraction and repulsion mediated by neuronal guidance cues. We find that the Drosophila receptor guanylyl cyclase Gyc76C genetically interacts with Semaphorin 1a (Sema-1a) and physically associates with the Sema-1a receptor plexin A (PlexA). PlexA regulates Gyc76C catalytic activity in vitro, and each distinct Gyc76C protein domain is crucial for regulating Gyc76C activity in vitro and motor axon guidance in vivo. The cytosolic protein dGIPC interacts with Gyc76C and facilitates Sema-1a-PlexA/Gyc76C-mediated motor axon guidance. These findings provide an in vivo link between semaphorin-mediated repulsive axon guidance and alteration of intracellular neuronal cGMP levels.
Within the pancreatic islet, the -cell represents the ultimate biosensor. Its central function is to accurately sense glucose levels in the blood and consequently release appropriate amounts of insulin. As the only cell type capable of insulin production, the -cell must balance this crucial workload with self-preservation and, when required, regeneration. Evidence suggests that the -cell has an important ally in intraislet endothelial cells (ECs). As well as providing a conduit for delivery of the primary input stimulus (glucose) and dissemination of its most important effector (insulin), intraislet blood vessels deliver oxygen to these dense clusters of metabolically active cells. Furthermore, it appears that ECs directly impact insulin gene expression and secretion and -cell survival. This review discusses the molecules and pathways involved in the crosstalk between -cells and intraislet ECs. The evidence supporting the intraislet EC as an important partner for -cell function is examined to highlight the relevance of this axis in the context of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Recent work that has established the potential of ECs or their progenitors to enhance the re-establishment of glycemic control following pancreatic islet transplantation in animal models is discussed.


DNM2 is a ubiquitously expressed GTPase that regulates multiple subcellular processes. Mutations in DNM2 are a common cause of centronuclear myopathy, a severe disorder characterized by altered skeletal muscle structure and function. The precise mechanisms underlying disease-associated DNM2 mutations are unresolved. We examined the common DNM2-S619L mutation using both in vitro and in vivo approaches. Expression of DNM2-S619L in zebrafish led to the accumulation of aberrant vesicular structures and to defective excitation-contraction coupling. Expression of DNM2-S619L in COS7 cells resulted in defective BIN1-dependent tubule formation. These data suggest that DNM2-S619L causes disease, in part, by interfering with membrane tubulation.
Mutations in the superoxide dismutase gene (SOD1) are one cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis [ALS; also known as motor neuron disease (MND)] in humans. ALS is a relentlessly progressive neurodegenerative disease and, to date, there are no neuroprotective therapies with significant impact on the disease course. Current transgenic murine models of the disease, which overexpress mutant SOD1, have so far been ineffective in the identification of new therapies beneficial in the human disease. Because the human and the zebrafish (Danio rerio) SOD1 protein share 76% identity, TILLING ('targeting induced local lesions in genomes') was carried out in collaboration with the Sanger Institute in order to identify mutations in the zebrafish sod1 gene. A T70I mutant zebrafish line was characterised using oxidative stress assays, neuromuscular junction (NMJ) analysis and motor function studies. The T70I sod1 zebrafish model offers the advantage over current murine models of expressing the mutant Sod1 protein at a physiological level, as occurs in humans with ALS. The T70I sod1 zebrafish demonstrates key features of ALS: an early NMJ phenotype, susceptibility to oxidative stress and an adult-onset motor neuron disease phenotype. We have demonstrated that the susceptibility of T70I sod1 embryos to oxidative stress can be used in a drug screening assay, to identify compounds that merit further investigation as potential therapies for ALS.
Abstract Purpose: The aim of the study was to explore the communication experiences of key communications partners (CPs) of individuals receiving home mechanical ventilation (HMV), with particular emphasis on the possibilities, difficulties and limitations CPs experienced in communication, possible support given to facilitate communication and exploring what made a skilled communicator. Method: A qualitative research design using interviews was used. The participants included 19 key CPs of individuals receiving HMV. Results: The analysis resulted in five themes: Encountering communication limitations, Functional communication strategies, Being a communication facilitator, Role insecurity and Emotional reactions and coping. The findings revealed that CPs needed to develop partly new reference frames for communication. In particular, participants emphasised the need to understand and interpret subtle details in the communicative interaction. Conclusions: The findings are discussed in the light of previous research, in particular an earlier study exploring another perspective; the ventilator-supported individuals' experiences of communication. Issues relating to the educational needs of CPs of individuals receiving HMV are discussed. The results are intended to enhance understanding of the challenges that individuals receiving HMV and their CPs face with communication, which should be of relevance not only to speech therapists, but for all healthcare practitioners in the field of HMV. Implications for Rehabilitation Individuals receiving home mechanical ventilation (HMV) as well as their communication partners (CPs) face many challenges with communication. Skilled CPs adopt a variety of communication strategies and roles to support the communication of individuals receiving HMV and to enhance empowerment. It is important to promote care continuity, as experience is an important factor in being a skilled communicator. Speech therapists should play an active role in the management of individuals receiving HMV and their CP training.

Trinucleotide repeat (TNR) expansion underpins a number of inheritable neurological human disorders. Multiple mechanisms are thought to contribute to the expansion process. The incorrect processing of the repeat tract by DNA repair proteins can drive this mutation process forward, as expansions are suppressed following ablation of certain repair factors in mouse models and cell models of disease. Nucleotide excision repair (NER) is one repair pathway implicated in TNR instability, although most previous work focussed on TNR contractions, not expansions. Here we investigated the role of NER in modulating expansions of threshold-length (CTGCAG) repeats in yeast. We show that both the global genome and transcription-coupled repair subpathways promote expansions of threshold-length TNRs. Furthermore, NER works with the 26S proteasome to drive expansions, based on analysis of double mutants defective in both pathways, and of Rad23, a protein involved in both NER and the shuttling of ubiquitinated proteins to the proteasome. This work provides the first evidence that both subpathways of NER can promote threshold-length TNR expansions and that NER interacts with the proteasome to drive expansions.













We designed two Phase I studies that assessed healthy volunteers in order to evaluate the safety and to optimize the dosing of the combination of the drugs isosorbide dinitrate, a nitric oxide donor, and ibuprofen, a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug. We designed these studies with the aim of designing a Phase II trial to evaluate the drugs' efficacy in patients affected by Duchenne muscular dystrophy. For the first trial, ISOFEN1, a single-dose, randomized-sequence, open-label, active control, three-treatment cross-over study, was aimed at comparing the pharmacokinetics of ibuprofen 200 mg and isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg when given alone and concomitantly. The pharmacokinetics of ibuprofen given alone versus ibuprofen given concomitantly with isosorbide dinitrate were similar, as documented by the lack of statistically significant differences in the main drug's pharmacokinetic parameters (time to maximal concentration [Tmax], maximal concentration [Cmax], area under the curve [AUC]0-t, and AUC0-). Similarly, we found that the coadministration of ibuprofen did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of isosorbide dinitrate. No issues of safety were detected. The second trial, ISOFEN2, was a single-site, dose titration study that was designed to select the maximum tolerated dose for isosorbide dinitrate when coadministered with ibuprofen. Eighteen out of the 19 enrolled subjects tolerated the treatment well, and they completed the study at the highest dose of isosorbide dinitrate applied (80 mg/day). One subject voluntarily decided to reduce the dose of isosorbide dinitrate from 80 mg to 60 mg. The treatment-related adverse events recorded during the study were, for the large majority, episodes of headache that remitted spontaneously in 0.5-1 hour - a known side effect of isosorbide dinitrate. These studies demonstrate that the combination of isosorbide dinitrate and ibuprofen does not lead to pharmacokinetic interactions between the two drugs; they also demonstrate that the combination of isosorbide dinitrate and ibuprofen has optimal tolerability and safety profiles that are similar to those previously reported for isosorbide dinitrate and ibuprofen given alone.
Chronic pain is increasingly recognized as a disease and accounts for substantial suffering and disability worldwide. The aging 'baby-boomer' generation is creating a tsunami of elderly patients (&gt;65 years old) for global healthcare systems (between 2010 and 2030). The phenotypic expression of chronic pain in the elderly can be influenced by co-morbid diseases (e.g. diabetes, cancer, depression, Alzheimer's disease, etc.), changes in physiological competency (e.g. drug metabolism/elimination) or cognitive reserve. Will a shift in the drug discovery paradigm be required to improve efficacy, side-effects or positively impact quality of life (QoL) in the elderly with chronic pain? This review highlights a number of potential pitfalls that should be considered when delivering valued pain relief medicines tailored for the elderly.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a widely abused illicit drug that can cause severe and even fatal adverse effects. However, interest remains for its possible clinical applications in posttraumatic stress disorder and anxiety treatment. Preclinical studies to determine MDMA's safety are needed. We evaluated MDMA's pharmacokinetics and metabolism in male rats receiving 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg s.c. MDMA, and the associated pharmacodynamic consequences. Blood was collected via jugular catheter at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 16, and 24 hours, with simultaneous serotonin (5-HT) behavioral syndrome and core temperature monitoring. Plasma specimens were analyzed for MDMA and the metabolites ()-3,4-dihydroxymethamphetamine (HHMA), ()-4-hydroxy-3-methoxymethamphetamine (HMMA), and ()-3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. After 2.5 mg/kg MDMA, mean MDMA Cmax was 164  47.1 ng/ml, HHMA and HMMA were major metabolites, and &lt;20% of MDMA was metabolized to MDA. After 5- and 10-mg/kg doses, MDMA areas under the curve (AUCs) were 3- and 10-fold greater than those after 2.5 mg/kg; HHMA and HMMA AUC values were relatively constant across doses; and MDA AUC values were greater than dose-proportional. Our data provide decisive in vivo evidence that MDMA and MDA display nonlinear accumulation via metabolic autoinhibition in the rat. Importantly, 5-HT syndrome severity correlated with MDMA concentrations (r = 0.8083; P &lt; 0.0001) and core temperature correlated with MDA concentrations (r = 0.7595; P &lt; 0.0001), suggesting that MDMA's behavioral and hyperthermic effects may involve distinct mechanisms. Given key similarities between MDMA pharmacokinetics in rats and humans, data from rats can be useful when provided at clinically relevant doses.

Eating disorders (ED) are psychiatric disorders of multifactorial origin, predominantly appearing in adolescence. Negative self-image is identified as risk factor, but the association between self-image and ED in adolescents or sex differences regarding such associations remains unclear. The study aimed to investigate the relationship between specific self-image aspects and ED symptoms in normal and clinical adolescents, including sex differences. Participants included 855 ED patients (girls=813, boys=42) and 482 normal adolescents (girls=238, boys=244), 13-15 years. Stepwise regression demonstrated strong associations between self-image and ED in normal adolescents (girls: R(2)=.31, boys: R(2)=.08), and stronger associations in patients (girls: R(2)=.64, boys: R(2)=.69). Qualitative sex differences were observed in patients. Connections between specific self-image aspects and ED have implications for clinical management of ED. The strong link between self-image variables and ED symptoms in normal girls, but not boys, is discussed in terms of the continuity-discontinuity hypothesis.
We know strikingly little about the core affective processes that drive the development and maintenance of, and recovery from anorexia nervosa (AN). To partially address this knowledge gap, we measured implicit and explicit affect toward pleasant, neutral, unpleasant, food-relevant, and weight-relevant images in three groups: in patients with acute AN, individuals recovered from AN, and healthy controls with no history of AN. Compared with the other two groups, acutely ill AN participants displayed significantly greater implicit positive affect toward pleasant images and significantly greater implicit negative affect toward unpleasant, high-calorie food, and overweight body type images. Recovered participants did not differ significantly from controls on any implicit affect measure. Explicit affective patterns were similar to implicit, but explicit measures yielded much smaller effect sizes and failed to detect certain group differences. Overall, negative implicit affect toward high-calorie foods and overweight body types may represent core affective processes that are operative during acute AN.
The Trans-diagnostic Model (TM) of eating pathology describes how one or more of four hypothesized mechanisms (i.e., mood intolerance, core low self-esteem, clinical perfectionism and interpersonal difficulties) may interrelate with each other and with the core psychopathology of eating disorders (i.e., over-evaluation of weight and shape) to maintain the disordered behaviors. Although a cognitive behavioral treatment based on the TM has shown to be effective in treating eating disorders, the model itself has undergone only limited testing. This is the first study to both elaborate and test the validity of the TM in a large sample (N=605) of undergraduate men. Body mass index was controlled within structural equation modeling analyses. Although not all expected associations for the maintenance variables were significant, overall the validity of the model was supported. Concern about shape and weight directly led to exercise behaviors. There was a direct path from binge eating to exercise and other forms of compensatory behaviors (i.e., purging); but no significant path from restriction to binge eating. Of the maintaining factors, mood intolerance was the only maintaining variable directly linked to men's eating disorder symptoms. The other three maintaining factors of the TM indirectly impacted restriction through concerns about shape and weight, whereas only interpersonal difficulties predicted low self-esteem and binge eating. Potential implications for understanding and targeting eating disturbances in men are discussed.

The 2013 Aspirin Foundation Conference covered a range of topics from clinical and medical history, epidemiology, health economics, and the current uses of aspirin in general practice and in the treatment and prevention of cancer. The use of aspirin as primary prevention in people at risk of atherosclerotic events is now well known, but its use as a preventative agent in some cancer types is still under discussion, and data on colorectal and lung cancer were presented at this meeting. The potential use of aspirin in preventing vascular disease in HIV patients was also discussed. The cost effectiveness of aspirin as a primary prevention strategy was discussed for the first time in this series of meetings.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) are widely used in both healthy and neuropsychiatric conditions as physiological indices of cognitive functions. Contrary to the common belief that cognitive ERPs are generated by local activity within the cerebral cortex, here we show that an attention-related ERP in the frontal cortex is correlated with, and likely generated by, subcortical inputs from the basal forebrain (BF). In rats performing an auditory oddball task, both the amplitude and timing of the frontal ERP were coupled with BF neuronal activity in single trials. The local field potentials (LFPs) associated with the frontal ERP, concentrated in deep cortical layers corresponding to the zone of BF input, were similarly coupled with BF activity and consistently triggered by BF electrical stimulation within 5-10 msec. These results highlight the important and previously unrecognized role of long-range subcortical inputs from the BF in the generation of cognitive ERPs. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02148.001.
-6-fatty acid desaturase (FADS2) is the key enzyme in the biosynthesis of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), the essential structural determinants of mammalian membrane lipid-bilayers. We developed the auxotrophic fads2(-/-) mouse mutant to assess the enigmatic role of 3- and 6-PUFAs in lipid homeostasis, membrane structure and function. Obesity resistance is another major phenotype of the fads2(-/-) mutant, the molecular basis of which is unknown. Phospholipidomic profiling of membrane systems of fads2(-/-)mice revealed diacylglycerol-structures, deprived of PUFAs but substituted with surrogate eicosa-5,11,14-trienoic acid. 6-Arachidonic (AA) and 3-docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) supplemented diets transformed fads2(-/-) into AA-fads2(-/-) and DHA-fads2(-/-) mutants. Severely altered phospholipid-bilayer structures of subcellular membranes of fads2(-/-) liver specifically interfered with maturation of transcription factor sterol-regulatory-element-binding protein, the key regulator of lipogenesis and lipid homeostasis. This study strengthens the concept that specific PUFA-substituted membrane phospholipid species are critical constituents of the structural platform operative in lipid homeostasis in normal and disease conditions.
PINK1 is a mitochondrial kinase proposed to have a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease through the regulation of mitophagy. Here, we show that the PINK1 main cleavage product, PINK152, after being generated inside mitochondria, can exit these organelles and localize to the cytosol, where it is not only destined for degradation by the proteasome but binds to Parkin. The interaction of cytosolic PINK1 with Parkin represses Parkin translocation to the mitochondria and subsequent mitophagy. Our work therefore highlights the existence of two cellular pools of PINK1 that have different effects on Parkin translocation and mitophagy.
The paucity of clinical and preclinical studies investigating sex differences in sleep has resulted in mixed findings as to the exact nature of these differences. Although gonadal steroids are known to modulate sleep in females, less is known about males. Moreover, little evidence exists concerning the origin of these sex differences in sleep behavior. Thus, the goal of this study was to directly compare the sensitivity of sleep behavior in male and female Sprague Dawley rats to changes in the gonadal steroid milieu and to test whether the sex differences in sleep are the result of brain sexual differentiation or differences in circulating gonadal steroids. Here we report the magnitude of change in sleep behavior induced by either estradiol (E2) or testosterone (T) was greater in females compared with males, suggesting that sleep behavior in females is more sensitive to the suppressive effects of gonadal steroids. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the organizational effects of early gonadal steroid exposure result in male-like responsivity to gonadal steroids and directly alter the activity of the ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPO), an established sleep-promoting nucleus, in adult masculinized females. Moreover, the nonaromatizable androgen dihydrotestosterone did not suppress sleep in either males or females, suggesting that the T-mediated effect in females was due to the aromatization of T into E2. Together our data suggest that, like sex behavior, sex differences in sleep follow the classical organizational/activational effects of gonadal steroids.
Enhanced epinephrine secretion from adrenal chromaffin cells (ACCs) is an important homeostatic response to severe systemic inflammation during sepsis. Evidence suggests that increased activation of ACCs by preganglionic sympathetic neurons and direct alterations in ACC function contribute to this response. However, the direct effects of sepsis on ACC function have yet to be characterized. We hypothesized that sepsis enhances epinephrine secretion from ACCs by increasing intracellular Ca(2+) signaling. Plasma epinephrine concentration was increased 5-fold in the lipopolysaccharide-induced endotoxemia model of sepsis compared with saline-treated control mice. Endotoxemia significantly enhanced stimulus-evoked epinephrine secretion from isolated ACCs in vitro. Carbon fiber amperometry revealed an increase in the number of secretory events during endotoxemia, without significant changes in spike amplitude, half-width, or quantal content. ACCs isolated up to 12 hours after the induction of endotoxemia exhibited larger stimulus-evoked Ca(2+) transients compared with controls. Similarly, ACCs from cecal ligation and puncture mice also exhibited enhanced Ca(2+) signaling. Although sepsis did not significantly affect ACC excitability or voltage-gated Ca(2+) currents, a 2-fold increase in caffeine (10 mM)-stimulated Ca(2+) transients was observed during endotoxemia. Depletion of endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) stores using cyclopiazonic acid (10 M) abolished the effects of endotoxemia on catecholamine secretion from ACCs. These findings suggest that sepsis directly enhances catecholamine secretion from ACCs through an increase in Ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum. These alterations in ACC function are likely to amplify the effects of increased preganglionic sympathetic neuron activity to further enhance epinephrine levels during sepsis.
Although IGF-1 has been implicated in mediating hypersensitivity to pain, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We identified a novel functional of the IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) in regulating A-type K(+) currents (IA) as well as membrane excitability in small trigeminal ganglion neurons. Our results showed that IGF-1 reversibly decreased IA, whereas the sustained delayed rectifier K(+) current was unaffected. This IGF-1-induced IA decrease was associated with a hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of inactivation and was blocked by the IGF-1R antagonist PQ-401; an insulin receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor had no such effect. An small interfering RNA targeting the IGF-1R, or pretreatment of neurons with specific phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors abolished the IGF-1-induced IA decrease. Surprisingly, IGF-1-induced effects on IA were not regulated by Akt, a common downstream target of PI3K. The MAPK/ERK kinase inhibitor U0126, but not its inactive analog U0124, as well as the c-Raf-specific inhibitor GW5074, blocked the IGF-1-induced IA response. Analysis of phospho-ERK (p-ERK) showed that IGF-1 significantly activated ERK1/2 whereas p-JNK and p-p38 were unaffected. Moreover, the IGF-1-induced p-ERK1/2 increase was attenuated by PI3K and c-Raf inhibition, but not by Akt blockade. Functionally, we observed a significantly increased action potential firing rate induced by IGF-1; pretreatment with 4-aminopyridine abolished this effect. Taken together, our results indicate that IGF-1 attenuates IA through sequential activation of the PI3K- and c-Raf-dependent ERK1/2 signaling cascade. This occurred via the activation of IGF-1R and might contribute to neuronal hyperexcitability in small trigeminal ganglion neurons.
Although most cancer research has focused in mRNA, non-coding RNAs are also an essential player in tumorigenesis. In addition to the well-recognized microRNAs, recent studies have also shown that epigenetic silencing by CpG island hypermethylation of other classes of non-coding RNAs, such as transcribed ultraconserved regions (T-UCRs) or small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs), also occur in human neoplasia. Herein we have studied the putative existence of epigenetic aberrations in the activity of PIWI proteins, an Argonaute family protein subclass, and the small regulatory PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) in testicular cancer, as the PIWI/piRNA pathway plays a critical role in male germline development. We have observed the existence of promoter CpG island hypermethylation-associated silencing of PIWIL1, PIWIL2, PIWIL4, and TDRD1 in primary seminoma and non-seminoma testicular tumors, in addition to testicular germ cell tumor cell lines. Most importantly, these epigenetic lesions occur in a context of piRNA downregulation and loss of DNA methylation of the LINE-1 repetitive sequences, one of the target genomic loci where the PIWI/piRNA machinery acts as a caretaker in non-transformed cells.

The ultimate treatment goal in epilepsy therapy is always freedom from seizures with as few treatment adverse effects as possible. If seizures persist with the first monotherapy, alternative monotherapy with another antiepileptic drug (AED) should be considered. Continuing seizures should lead to a reevaluation of differential diagnosis and adherence. Epilepsy surgery as an alternative therapy may be suitable in selected cases. If the diagnosis of epilepsy is established and epilepsy surgery is not appropriate, AED treatment should be optimized. Evidence for how to proceed is lacking. Concepts such as rational polytherapy have been advocated but remain speculative concerning better efficacy based on the use of AEDs with differing modes of action. A variety of new AEDs including rufinamide, lacosamide, vigabatrin, perampanel, and retigabine have been recently introduced in the United States. They are briefly characterized in this update review.



Alteration of consciousness (AOC) is an important clinical manifestation of partial seizures that greatly impacts the quality of life of patients with epilepsy. Several theories have been proposed in the last fifty years. An emerging concept in neurology is the global workspace (GW) theory that postulates that access to consciousness (from several sensorial modalities) requires transient coordinated activity from associative cortices, in particular the prefrontal cortex and the posterior parietal associative cortex. Several lines of evidence support the view that partial seizures alter consciousness through disturbance of the GW. In particular, a nonlinear relation has been shown between excess of synchronization in the GW regions and the degree of AOC. Changes in thalamocortical synchrony occurring during the spreading of the ictal activity seem particularly involved in the mechanism of altered consciousness. This link between abnormal synchrony and AOC offers new perspectives in the treatment of the AOC since means of decreasing consciousness alteration in seizures could improve patients' quality of life.
Infantile spasms are seizures manifesting in infantile epileptic encephalopathies that are associated with poor epilepsy and cognitive outcomes. The current therapies are not always effective or are associated with serious side effects. Early cessation of spasms has been proposed to improve long-term outcomes. To identify new therapies for infantile spasms with rapid suppression of spasms, we are using the multiple-hit rat model of infantile spasms, which is a model of refractory infantile spasms. Here, we are testing the efficacy and tolerability of a single dose of the galanin receptor 1 preferring analog, NAX 5055, in the multiple-hit model of spasms. To induce the model, postnatal day 3 (PN3) male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent right intracerebral infusions of doxorubicin and lipopolysaccharide; p-chlorophenylalanine was then injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) at PN5. After the onset of spasms at PN4, 11-14 rats/group were injected i.p. with either NAX 5055 (0.5, 1, 2, or 4mg/kg) or vehicle. Video monitoring for spasms included a 1h pre-injection period, followed by 5h of recording post-injection, and two 2h sessions on PN5. The study was conducted in a randomized, blinded manner. Neurodevelopmental reflexes were assessed daily as well as at 2h after injection. Respiratory function, heart rate, pulse distension, oximetry and blood glucose were measured 4h after injection. The relative expression of GalR1 and GalR2 mRNA over -actin in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus was determined with real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. There was no acute effect of NAX 5055 on spasm frequency after the single dose of NAX 5055 (n=11-13 rats/group, following exclusions). Neurodevelopmental reflexes, vital signs, blood glucose measured 4h post-injection, and survival were not affected. A reduction in pulse and breath distention of unclear clinical significance was observed with the 7mg/kg NAX 5055 dose. GalR1 mRNA was present in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of PN4 and adult rats. The hippocampal - but not the cortical - GalR1 mRNA expression was significantly lower in PN4 pups than in adults. GalR1 mRNA was also at least 20 times less abundant in the PN4 cortex than GalR2 mRNA. In conclusion, a single dose of NAX 5055 has no acute efficacy on spasms or toxicity in the multiple hit rat model of medically refractory infantile spasms. Our findings cannot exclude the possibility that repetitive NAX 5055 administration may show efficacy on spasms. The higher expression of GalR2 in the PN4 cortex suggests that GalR2-preferring analogs may be of interest to test for efficacy on spasms.



Stress is the most commonly reported precipitating factor for seizures. The proconvulsant actions of stress hormones are thought to mediate the effects of stress on seizure susceptibility. Interestingly, epileptic patients have increased basal levels of stress hormones, including corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and corticosterone, which are further increased following seizures. Given the proconvulsant actions of stress hormones, we proposed that seizure-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis may contribute to future seizure susceptibility. Consistent with this hypothesis, our data demonstrate that pharmacological induction of seizures in mice with kainic acid or pilocarpine increases circulating levels of the stress hormone, corticosterone, and exogenous corticosterone administration is sufficient to increase seizure susceptibility. However, the mechanism(s) whereby seizures activate the HPA axis remain unknown. Here we demonstrate that seizure-induced activation of the HPA axis involves compromised GABAergic control of CRH neurons, which govern HPA axis function. Following seizure activity, there is a collapse of the chloride gradient due to changes in NKCC1 and KCC2 expression, resulting in reduced amplitude of sIPSPs and even depolarizing effects of GABA on CRH neurons. Seizure-induced activation of the HPA axis results in future seizure susceptibility which can be blocked by treatment with an NKCC1 inhibitor, bumetanide, or blocking the CRH signaling with Antalarmin. These data suggest that compromised GABAergic control of CRH neurons following an initial seizure event may cause hyperexcitability of the HPA axis and increase future seizure susceptibility.

Objectives. The incidence of convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) is high in Africa but the long-term outcome is unknown. We examined the neurocognitive outcome and survival of children treated for CSE in a Kenyan hospital 3 to 4 years after discharge. Methods. The frequency and nature of neurological deficits among this group of children were determined and compared to a control group. The children were screened with the Ten Questions Questionnaire for neurodevelopmental impairment if alive and those that screened positive were invited for further assessment to determine the pattern and extent of their impairment. A verbal autopsy was performed to determine the cause of death in those that died. Results. In the 119 cases followed-up, 9 (8%) died after discharge, with the majority having seizures during their fatal illness. The 110 survivors (median age 5 years) had significantly more neurological impairments on the screening compared to 282 controls (34/110 (30.9%) versus 11/282 (3.9%), OR = 11.0, 95% CI 5.3-22.8). Fifteen percent of the cases had active epilepsy. Conclusions. This study demonstrates the considerable burden of CSE in African children. Strategies to manage children with CSE that are acceptable to the community need to be explored to improve the longer-term outcome.
Purpose. To review the postoperative seizure outcomes of patients that underwent surgery for epilepsy at King Faisal Specialist Hospital &amp; Research Centre (KFSHRC). Methods. A descriptive retrospective study for 502 patients operated on for medically intractable epilepsy between 1998 and 2012. The surgical outcome was measured using the ILAE criteria. Results. The epilepsy surgery outcome for temporal lobe epilepsy surgery (ILAE classes 1, 2, and 3) at 12, 36, and 60 months is 79.6%, 74.2%, and 67%, respectively. The favorable 12- and 36-month outcomes for frontal lobe epilepsy surgery are 62% and 52%, respectively. For both parietal and occipital epilepsy lobe surgeries the 12- and 36-month outcomes are 67%. For multilobar epilepsy surgery, the 12- and 36-month outcomes are 65% and 50%, respectively. The 12- and 36-month outcomes for functional hemispherectomy epilepsy surgery are 64.2% and 63%, respectively. According to histopathology diagnosis, mesiotemporal sclerosis (MTS) and benign CNS tumors had the best favorable outcome after surgery at 1 year (77.27% and 84.3%, resp.,) and 3 years (76% and 75%, resp.,). The least favorable seizure-free outcome after 3 years occurred in cases with dual pathology (66.6%). Thirty-four epilepsy patients with normal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain scans were surgically treated. The first- and third-year epilepsy surgery outcome of 17 temporal lobe surgeries were (53%) and (47%) seizure-free, respectively. The first- and third-year epilepsy surgery outcomes of 15 extratemporal epilepsy surgeries were (47%) and (33%) seizure-free. Conclusion. The best outcomes are achieved with temporal epilepsy surgery, mesial temporal sclerosis, and benign CNS tumor. The worst outcomes are from multilobar surgery, dual pathology, and normal MRI.

The delusional misidentification syndromes, occurring within the context of different nosological settings, such as schizophrenia, are psychopathological phenomena related to the experience of depersonalisation/derealisation. Extensive research indicates that individuals meeting specific &quot;prodromal&quot; criteria, such as attenuated psychotic symptoms, brief intermittent psychotic symptoms, or functional decline and family history of schizophrenia have increased risk for impending psychosis. Despite depersonalisation and/or derealisation often precede psychotic onset, they are not included among the prodromal criteria of the Australian-American approach. A 17-year-old boy with acute agitation, violent behaviour and aggression, and dissociative amnesia had a mild verbal memory impairment and temporo-limbic hypometabolism on the positron-emission tomography. The patient was assessed with both the ultra-high risk (UHR) and the basic symptom approaches and was not found to be prodromal with imminent risk of transition to psychosis. He was hospitalised briefly and 2weeks after discharge he developed delusional misidentification. This case shows that even the integration of both UHR and basic symptoms criteria may give false negatives in the prediction of psychosis, especially in those cases in which a long prodromal phase is absent.
Traits of autistic spectrum disorders (ASD) occur frequently in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but the significance of their presence in terms of phenotype and underlying neurobiology is not properly understood. This analysis aimed to determine whether higher levels of autistic traits, as measured by the Social Communication Questionnaire (SCQ), index a more severe presentation in a large, rigorously phenotyped sample of children with ADHD (N=711). Regression analyses were used to examine association of SCQ scores with core ADHD features, clinical comorbidities and cognitive and developmental features, with adjustment for putative confounders. For outcomes showing association with total SCQ score, secondary analyses determined levels of differential association of the three ASD sub-domains. Results suggest that increasing ASD symptomatology within ADHD is associated with a more severe phenotype in terms of oppositional, conduct and anxiety symptoms, lower full-scale IQ, working memory deficits and general motor problems. These associations persisted after accounting for ADHD severity, suggesting that autistic symptomatology independently indexes the severity of comorbid impairments in the context of ADHD. Sub-domain scores did not show unique contributions to most outcomes, except that social deficits were independently associated with oppositional symptoms and repetitive behaviours independently predicted hyperactive-impulsive symptoms and motor problems. It would be worthwhile for clinicians to consider levels of socio-communicative and repetitive traits in those with ADHD who do not meet diagnostic criteria for ASD, as they index higher levels of phenotypic complexity, which may have implications for efficacy of interventions.
Analysis of highly cited papers provides unique insights into the status of research in a given field. We sought to identify the top 100 most highly cited papers in the field of anorexia nervosa (AN). A free, publically accessible software was used to conduct an online search of publications with accompanying citation data. Search terms were selected to focus on papers dealing predominantly with AN, and the results manually screened to exclude out-of-scope publications. Papers in bulimia nervosa, eating disorder not otherwise specified and binge-eating disorder, were not included. The top 100 most highly cited papers in the AN field were identified. Of these, 34 garnered greater than 400 citations, classifying them as 'citation classics'. These works were divided into five categories, those dealing with epidemiological trends, medical/psychiatric comorbidities, treatment, mechanisms of disease and measurement/classification. Publications examining the epidemiology and underlying mechanisms of AN account for the majority of the top 100 papers. Scales and measurement tools have had the greatest impact, garnering the greatest number of average citations per paper. Although reasonably diverse, the top 100 papers highlight areas still lagging behind, including the neuroscience of AN as well as research into novel treatment strategies.
Understanding the factors that influence physical activity in persons with binge eating disorders can aid the design of more effective interventions. In order to address this, the present paper provides a systematic quantitative review of the correlates of physical activity in people with binge eating disorder. We searched PsycINFO, PubMed and PEDro from inception until June 2013. Keywords included 'binge eating' with 'physical activity' or 'exercise', or 'physical inactivity' or 'sedentary'. Nine papers involving 636 (489 women) persons with binge eating disorders and evaluating 24 correlates were included. No consistent physical activity correlates were reported in four or more studies. The only significant correlate with lower physical activity participation reported in more than one study was a negative body attitude. Further research is required to address this current gap in literature.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) has been identified in stem cells from both normal and cancerous tissues. This study aimed to evaluate the potential of ALDH as a universal brain tumour initiating cell (BTIC) marker applicable to primary brain tumours and their biological role in maintaining stem cell status. Cells from various primary brain tumours (24paediatric and 6 adult brain tumours) were stained with Aldefluor and sorted by flow cytometry. We investigated the impact of ALDH expression on BTIC characteristics in vitro and on tumourigenic potential in vivo. Primary brain tumours showed universal expression of ALDH, with 0.3-28.9% of the cells in various tumours identified as ALDH(+). The proportion of CD133(+) cells within ALDH(+) is higher than ALDH cells. ALDH(+) cells generate neurospheres with high proliferative potential, express neural stem cell markers and differentiate into multiple nervous system lineages. ALDH(+) cells tend to show high expression of induced pluripotent stem cell-related genes. Notably, targeted knockdown of ALDH1 by shRNA interference in BTICs potently disturbed their self-renewing ability. After 3months, ALDH(+) cells gave rise to tumours in 93% of mice whereas ALDH cells did not. The characteristic pathology of mice brain tumours from ALDH(+) cells was similar to that of human brain tumours, and these cells are highly proliferative in vivo. Our data suggest that primary brain tumours contain distinct subpopulations of cells that have high expression levels of ALDH and BTIC characteristics. ALDH might be a potential therapeutic target applicable to primary brain tumours.
Physicians' work with sickness certifications is an understudied field. The aims of this study were to gain knowledge of experiences concerning the sickness certification process among physicians working at oncology clinics. In 2008, all physicians working in Sweden (n = 36898) were sent a questionnaire concerning sick-listing practices. All respondents working at an oncology clinic (n = 428) were included in the current study. Most of the physicians had sickness certification consultations at least weekly (91.3%). More than one fifth (22.3%) reported that they worked at a clinic with a workplace policy regarding the handling of sickness certification and 61.1% reported receiving at least some support in such cases from their immediate manager. Issuing unnecessary long sickness certificates were related to experiencing delicate interactions with patients and to lack of time. To a moderate degree, further competence was requested regarding: different types of compensation in the social insurance system, responsibilities of the Social Insurance Agency and employers, and sickness insurance rules. The large majority of physicians working in oncology reported regularly having consultations involving sickness certification. Overall, they reported few problems, low level of need for more competence regarding sickness certification, and low frequency of issuing sickness absences for longer periods than necessary.
Williams Beuren syndrome (WBS) is a multisystemic disorder caused by a hemizygous deletion of 1.5 Mb on chromosome 7q11.23 spanning 28 genes. A few patients with larger and smaller WBS deletion have been reported. They show clinical features that vary between isolated SVAS to the full spectrum of WBS phenotype, associated with epilepsy or autism spectrum behavior. Here we describe four patients with atypical WBS 7q11.23 deletions. Two carry ~3.5 Mb larger deletion towards the telomere that includes Huntingtin-interacting protein 1 (HIP1) and tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxigenase activation protein gamma (YWHAG) genes. Other two carry a shorter deletion of ~1.2 Mb at centromeric side that excludes the distal WBS genes BAZ1B and FZD9. Along with previously reported cases, genotype-phenotype correlation in the patients described here further suggests that haploinsufficiency of HIP1 and YWHAG might cause the severe neurological and neuropsychological deficits including epilepsy and autistic traits, and that the preservation of BAZ1B and FZD9 genes may be related to mild facial features and moderate neuropsychological deficits. This report highlights the importance to characterize additional patients with 7q11.23 atypical deletions comparing neuropsychological and clinical features between these individuals to shed light on the pathogenic role of genes within and flanking the WBS region.
The conventional approach to identifying the defective gene in a family with an inherited disease is to find the disease locus through family studies. However, the rapid development and decreasing cost of next generation sequencing facilitates a more direct approach. Here, we report the identification of a frameshift mutation in LAMB3 as a cause of dominant hypoplastic amelogenesis imperfecta (AI). Whole-exome sequencing of three affected family members and subsequent filtering of shared variants, without prior genetic linkage, sufficed to identify the pathogenic variant. Simultaneous analysis of multiple family members confirms segregation, enhancing the power to filter the genetic variation found and leading to rapid identification of the pathogenic variant. LAMB3 encodes a subunit of Laminin-5, one of a family of basement membrane proteins with essential functions in cell growth, movement and adhesion. Homozygous LAMB3 mutations cause junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB) and enamel defects are seen in JEB cases. However, to our knowledge, this is the first report of dominant AI due to a LAMB3 mutation in the absence of JEB.
Hereditary retinal dystrophies (RD) constitute a group of blinding diseases that are characterized by clinical variability and pronounced genetic heterogeneity. The different forms of RD can be caused by mutations in &gt;100 genes, including &gt;1600 exons. Consequently, next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies are among the most promising approaches to identify mutations in RD. So far, NGS is not routinely used in gene diagnostics. We developed a diagnostic NGS pipeline to identify mutations in 170 genetically and clinically unselected RD patients. NGS was applied to 105 RD-associated genes. Underrepresented regions were examined by Sanger sequencing. The NGS approach was successfully established using cases with known sequence alterations. Depending on the initial clinical diagnosis, we identified likely causative mutations in 55% of retinitis pigmentosa and 80% of Bardet-Biedl or Usher syndrome cases. Seventy-one novel mutations in 40 genes were newly associated with RD. The genes USH2A, EYS, ABCA4, and RHO were more frequently affected than others. Occasionally, cases carried mutations in more than one RD-associated gene. In addition, we found possible dominant de-novo mutations in cases with sporadic RD, which implies consequences for counseling of patients and families. NGS-based mutation analyses are reliable and cost-efficient approaches in gene diagnostics of genetically heterogeneous diseases like RD.
Trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type I (TRPSI) is a genetic disorder characterized by sparse hair, a bulbous nasal tip, short stature with severe generalized shortening of all phalanges, metacarpal and metatarsal bones and cone-shaped epiphyses. This syndrome is caused by autosomal dominant mutations in the TRPS1 gene. However, because recurrence has been observed in siblings from healthy parents, an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance has also been suggested. We report on a male patient, born to healthy unrelated parents, with TRPSI. Using Sanger sequencing, we identified a mutation in the TRPS1 gene (c.2735G&gt;A, P.Cys912Tyr). The same mutation was detected as a 10% mosaic mutation by Pyrosequencing in blood-derived DNA from his healthy mother. To our knowledge, this is the first time that somatic mosaicism has been identified in TRPSI. This data combined with the observations of recurrences in siblings from healthy parents modifies the genetic counseling for TRPSI, which should discuss a 5-10 percent recurrence risk for healthy parents with an affected child because of the possibility of germinal mosaicism.
The innate Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) detects infections by recognizing viral and bacterial single-stranded RNA. In addition to pathogen-derived RNA, immune cells expressing high levels of TLR7, such as B cells and dendritic cells (DCs), can be activated by self-RNA. During myelin-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis, TLR7 expression is increased within the central nervous system (CNS). To define the contribution of TLR7 to the development of EAE, we evaluated the course of the disease in C57BL/6-Tlr7-deficient mice compared with that in WT mice and found that TLR7-deficient mice had decreased disease severity. This protection was associated with decreased myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-specific T-cell activation by primed DCs, decreased circulating autoantibodies, attenuated inflammation within the CNS, and increased Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells in the periphery and in the CNS. In conclusion, we show that TLR7 is involved in the maintenance of autoimmunity in the pathogenesis of EAE.






Brain histamine is involved in the regulation of the sleep-wake cycle and alertness. Despite the widespread use of the mouse as an experimental model, the periodic properties of major markers of the mouse histaminergic system have not been comprehensively characterized. We analysed the daily levels of histamine and its first metabolite, 1-methylhistamine, in different brain structures of C57BL/6J and CBA/J mouse strains, and the mRNA level and activity of histidine decarboxylase and histamine-N-methyltransferase in C57BL/6J mice. In the C57BL/6J strain, histamine release, assessed by in vivo microdialysis, underwent prominent periodic changes. The main period was 24h peaking during the activity period. Additional 8 h periods were also observed. The release was highly positively correlated with active wakefulness, as shown by electroencephalography. In both mouse strains, tissue histamine levels remained steady for 24h in all structures except for the hypothalamus of CBA/J mice, where 24-h periodicity was observed. Brain tissue 1-methylhistamine levels in both strains reached their maxima in the periods of activity. The mRNA level of histidine decarboxylase in the tuberomamillary nucleus and the activities of histidine decarboxylase and histamine-N-methyltransferase in the striatum and cortex did not show a 24-h rhythm, whereas in the hypothalamus the activities of both enzymes had a 12-h periodicity. These results show that the activities of histamine-metabolizing enzymes are not under simple direct circadian regulation. The complex and non-uniform temporal patterns of the histaminergic system of the mouse brain suggest that histamine is strongly involved in the maintenance of active wakefulness.
Several factors, including epileptic seizures, can strongly stimulate ongoing neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus. Although adult-born granule cells generated after seizure activity have different physiological properties from their normal counterparts, they integrate into the existing, mature network of the adult hippocampal dentate gyrus. However, the exact role of the neurogenic response during epilepsy and its possible involvement in epileptogenesis have remained elusive. Here, we discuss recent studies shedding new light on the interplay between epilepsy and neurogenesis, and try to explain discrepancies in this literature by proposing seizure severity-dependent induction of two subsets of newborn cells with different properties. We hypothesise that a low seizure intensity would stimulate neurogenesis to a 'physiological plasticity' level and have few pathological consequences. In contrast, a high initial seizure intensity may induce a specific subset of altered and/or ectopically located new granule cells with different electrophysiological properties that could initiate hyperexcitatory recurrent networks that could, in turn, contribute to chronic epilepsy. This hypothesis may clarify previously contradictory data in the literature, and could thereby aid in our understanding of the role of neurogenesis in epileptogenesis, and open up promising avenues for therapeutic intervention.
Biochemical analysis of central nervous system proteins and nucleic acids requires fresh-tissue homogenates, whereas immunohistochemistry usually is performed in sections prepared from perfusion-fixed tissue. Post-mortem immersion-fixation is possible, but largely impairs morphological preservation and protein antigenicity. Here, we present a simple, fast and versatile protocol allowing concurrent biochemical and immunohistochemical analysis, including pre-embedding immunoelectron microscopy, using tissue from the same animal. The protocol includes a brief transcardiac perfusion with ice-cold, oxygenated and glucose-supplemented artificial cerebrospinal fluid to maintain brain tissue alive, prior to isolation of regions of interest, followed by homogenisation for biochemistry or immersion-fixation for immunohistochemistry. We provide several examples demonstrating that this protocol allows optimal biochemical and morphological analysis, characterised with optimal sensitivity and preservation of tissue structure, along with a reduction of artefacts typically seen in perfusion-fixed tissue. This protocol should find widespread applications for combining analytical methods in tissue from the same animal, thereby reducing the number of mice required for a given experiment.
Most serotonergic neurons display a prominent medium-duration afterhyperpolarization (mAHP), which is mediated by small-conductance Ca(2+) -activated K(+) (SK) channels. Recent ex vivo and in vivo experiments have suggested that SK channel blockade increases the firing rate and/or bursting in these neurons. The purpose of this study was therefore to characterize the source of Ca(2+) which activates the mAHP channels in serotonergic neurons. In voltage-clamp experiments, an outward current was recorded at -60 mV after a depolarizing pulse to +100 mV. A supramaximal concentration of the SK channel blockers apamin or (-)-bicuculline methiodide blocked this outward current. This current was also sensitive to the broad Ca(2+) channel blocker Co(2+) and was partially blocked by both -conotoxin and mibefradil, which are blockers of N-type and T-type Ca(2+) channels, respectively. Neither blockers of other voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels nor DBHQ, an inhibitor of Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release, had any effect on the SK current. In current-clamp experiments, mAHPs following action potentials were only blocked by -conotoxin and were unaffected by mibefradil. This was observed in slices from both juvenile and adult rats. Finally, when these neurons were induced to fire in an in vivo-like pacemaker rate, only -conotoxin was able to increase their firing rate (by ~30%), an effect identical to the one previously reported for apamin. Our results demonstrate that N-type Ca(2+) channels are the only source of Ca(2+) which activates the SK channels underlying the mAHP. T-type Ca(2+) channels may also activate SK channels under different circumstances.
In the anti-saccade task, a subject must make a saccadic eye movement in the opposite direction from a suddenly-presented visual target. This sets up a conflict between the natural tendency to make a pro-saccade towards the target and the required anti-saccade. Consequently there is a tendency to make errors, usually corrected by a second movement in the correct anti-saccade direction. In a previous paper, we showed that a very simple model, with racing LATER (Linear Approach to Threshold at Ergodic Rate) units for the pro- and anti-directions, and a stop unit that inhibits the impending error response, could account precisely for the detailed distributions of reaction times both for correct and error responses. However, the occurrence and timing of these final corrections have not been studied. We propose a novel mechanism: the decision race re-starts after an error. Here we describe measurements of all the responses in an anti-saccade task, including corrections, in a group of human volunteers, and show that the timing of the corrections themselves can be predicted by the same model with one additional assumption, that initiation of an incorrect pro-saccade also resets and initiates a corrective anti-saccade. No extra parameters are needed to predict this complex aspect of behaviour, adding weight to our proposal that we correct our mistakes by re-starting a neural decision race. The concept of re-starting a decision race is potentially exciting because it implies that neural processing of one decision can influence the next, and may be a fruitful way of understanding the complex behaviour underlying sequential decisions.
Spike timing and network synchronization are important for plasticity, development and maturation of brain circuits. Spike delays and timing can be strongly modulated by a low-threshold, slowly inactivating, voltage-gated potassium current called D-current (ID ). ID can delay the onset of spiking, cause temporal integration of multiple inputs, and regulate spike threshold and network synchrony. Recent data indicate that ID can also undergo activity-dependent, homeostatic regulation. Therefore, we have studied the postnatal development of ID -dependent mechanisms in CA1 pyramidal cells in hippocampal slices from young rats (P7-27), using somatic whole-cell recordings. At P21-27, these neurons showed long spike delays and pronounced temporal integration in response to a series of brief depolarizing current pulses or a single long pulse, whereas younger cells (P7-20) showed shorter discharge delays and weak temporal integration, although the spike threshold became increasingly negative with maturation. Application of -dendrotoxin (-DTX), which blocks ID , reduced the spiking latency and temporal integration most strongly in mature cells, while shifting the spike threshold most strongly in a depolarizing direction in these cells. Voltage-clamp analysis revealed an -DTX-sensitive outward current (ID ) that increased in amplitude during development. In contrast to P21-23, ID in the youngest group (P7-9) showed smaller peri-threshold amplitude. This may explain why long discharge delays and robust temporal integration only appear later, 3 weeks postnatally. We conclude that ID properties and ID -dependent functions develop postnatally in rat CA1 pyramidal cells, and ID may modulate network activity and plasticity through its effects on synaptic integration, spike threshold, timing and synchrony.
Ghrelin is an orexigenic hormone produced by the stomach. Ghrelin, however, may also be a modulator of the circadian system given that ghrelin receptors are expressed in the master clock, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and several outputs of this region. To investigate this, we performed analyses of running wheel activity and neuronal activation in wild type (WT) and growth hormone secretagogue receptor-knockout (GHSR-KO) mice under various lighting conditions. GHSR-KO and WT mice were maintained under constant dark (DD) or constant light (LL) with ad libitum access to food before being placed on a schedule of temporally restricted access to food (4h/day) for 2weeks. There were no differences between KO and WT mice in free-running period under DD, but GHSR-KO mice required more days to develop a high level of food anticipatory activity, and this was lower than that observed in WT mice. Under LL, GHSR-KO mice showed greater activity overall, lengthening of their circadian period, and more resistance to the disorganisational effects of LL. Furthermore, GHSR-KO mice showed greater activity overall, and greater activity in anticipation of a scheduled meal under LL. These behavioral effects were not correlated with changes in the circadian expression of the Fos, Per1 or Per2 proteins under any lighting conditions. These results suggest that the ghrelin receptor plays a role in modulating the activity of the circadian system under normal conditions and under restricted feeding schedules, but does so through mechanisms that remain to be determined.
Fast ripples (FRs) are network oscillations, defined variously as having frequencies of &gt; 150 to &gt; 250 Hz, with a controversial mechanism. FRs appear to indicate a propensity of cortical tissue to originate seizures. Here, we demonstrate field oscillations, at up to 400 Hz, in spontaneously epileptic human cortical tissue in vitro, and present a network model that could explain FRs themselves, and their relation to 'ordinary' (slower) ripples. We performed network simulations with model pyramidal neurons, having axons electrically coupled. Ripples (&lt; 250 Hz) were favored when conduction of action potentials, axon to axon, was reliable. Whereas ripple population activity was periodic, firing of individual axons varied in relative phase. A switch from ripples to FRs took place when an ectopic spike occurred in a cell coupled to another cell, itself multiply coupled to others. Propagation could then start in one direction only, a condition suitable for re-entry. The resulting oscillations were &gt; 250 Hz, were sustained or interrupted, and had little jitter in the firing of individual axons. The form of model FR was similar to spontaneously occurring FRs in excised human epileptic tissue. In vitro, FRs were suppressed by a gap junction blocker. Our data suggest that a given network can produce ripples, FRs, or both, via gap junctions, and that FRs are favored by clusters of axonal gap junctions. If axonal gap junctions indeed occur in epileptic tissue, and are mediated by connexin 26 (recently shown to mediate coupling between immature neocortical pyramidal cells), then this prediction is testable.
Anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis is a well-defined autoimmune disorder. Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is a still controversial entity, lacking definite diagnostic criteria. We described a 14-year-old-girl presenting with a clinical picture consistent with the diagnosis of anti-NMDAR encephalitis, confirmed by NMDAR antibody testing. Four years earlier, she had presented a similar episode of acute encephalopathy diagnosed as HE. Anti-NMDAR encephalitis and HE share similar clinical features so that the differential diagnosis can be difficult if specific antibodies are not tested. The correct diagnosis of anti-NMDAR encephalitis is crucial to plan the appropriate management and follow-up, namely in term of oncological screening, since it can be paraneoplastic in origin. We suggest to re-evaluate the clinical history of all subjects with previous HE diagnosis in order to evaluate the possible diagnosis of anti-NMDAR encephalitis and plan the appropriate management of these patients.




The history and the behavioral profile of 2 patients with brain abnormalities in the region of the left amygdaloidal complex might suggest that the dysfunction of the neural pathways related to the left amygdala has to occur at an early developmental stage to result in impaired emotional judgments of facial expressions. This is in line with the hypothesis that emotional information processing is based on a distributed neural network which, during ontogenesis, gradually expands from the amygdala and the amygdaloidal complex to further components of the limbic system.  2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Background: To study the 1-year evolution of quantitative dual-task gait parameters in comparison with single-task gait parameters and detailed neuropsychological assessment in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) treated with natalizumab. Methods: Walking speed, stride length and stride time during a dual task (walking while forward counting, backward counting, semantic fluency, and phonemic fluency), a single walking task, and a detailed neuropsychological assessment were prospectively measured and assessed twice at the 1-year interval in 9 consecutive patients with MS treated with natalizumab. Results: Dual-task-related gait changes (walking speed, stride length and stride time while performing semantic fluency and walking speed, and stride time while performing phonemic fluency) showed a significant improvement after 1 year of treatment with natalizumab. The single walking task and detailed neuropsychological assessment did not present any modification. Conclusions: Dual-task-related gait changes using a cognitive task with a specific executive demand represent an interesting marker of disease-modifying therapy in patients with MS.  2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.


Recent studies suggest that pharmacologic effects of anxiolytic agents can be mapped as functional changes in the fear, stress and anxiety brain circuit. In this work we investigated the effects of a standard treatment, paroxetine (20mg/day), in subjects with Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) versus placebo using different fMRI paradigms. The fMRI sessions, performed before and after the treatment, consisted of a public exposition of recorded performance task (PERPT), an emotional face processing task (EFPT) and a 6-min resting state followed by an off-scanner public speaking test. Paroxetine significantly improved the clinical conditions of SAD patients (n=17) vs. placebo (n=16) as measured with Clinical Global Inventory - Improvement (CGI-I) while no change was seen when using Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale, as expected given the small size of the study population. Paroxetine reduced the activation of insula, thalamus and subgenual/anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in PERPT. Resting-state fMRI assessment using Independent Component Analysis indicated that paroxetine reduced functional connectivity in insula, thalamus and ACC when compared with placebo. Both paradigms showed significant correlation with CGI-I in rostral prefrontal cortex. Conversely, paroxetine compared to placebo produced activation of right amygdala and bilateral insula and no effects in ACC when tested with EFPT. No treatment effects on distress scores were observed in the off-scanner Public Speaking Test. Overall this study supports the use of fMRI as sensitive approach to explore the neurobiological substrate of the effects of pharmacologic treatments and, in particular, of resting state fMRI given its simplicity and task independence.
NO is a pleiotropic signaling molecule and has an important role in cognition and emotion. In the brain, NO is produced by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS-I, encoded by NOS1) coupled to the NMDA receptor via PDZ interactions; this protein-protein interaction is disrupted upon binding of NOS1 adapter protein (encoded by NOS1AP) to NOS-I. As both NOS1 and NOS1AP were associated with schizophrenia, we here investigated these genes in greater detail by genotyping new samples and conducting a meta-analysis of our own and published data. In doing so, we confirmed association of both genes with schizophrenia and found evidence for their interaction in increasing risk towards disease. Our strongest finding was the NOS1 promoter SNP rs41279104, yielding an odds ratio of 1.29 in the meta-analysis. As findings from heterologous cell systems have suggested that the risk allele decreases gene expression, we studied the effect of the variant on NOS1 expression in human post-mortem brain samples and found that the risk allele significantly decreases expression of NOS1 in the prefrontal cortex. Bioinformatic analyses suggest that this might be due the replacement of six transcription factor binding sites by two new binding sites as a consequence of proxy SNPs. Taken together, our data argue that genetic variance in NOS1 resulting in lower prefrontal brain expression of this gene contributes to schizophrenia liability, and that NOS1 interacts with NOS1AP in doing so. The NOS1-NOS1AP PDZ interface may thus well constitute a novel target for small molecules in at least some forms of schizophrenia.
There is recognition that biomedical research into the causes of mental disorders and their treatment needs to adopt new approaches to research. Novel biomedical techniques have advanced our understanding of how the brain develops and is shaped by behaviour and environment. This has led to the advent of stratified medicine, which translates advances in basic research by targeting aetiological mechanisms underlying mental disorder. The resulting increase in diagnostic precision and targeted treatments may provide a window of opportunity to address the large public health burden, and individual suffering associated with mental disorders. While mental health and mental disorders have significant representation in the &quot;health, demographic change and wellbeing&quot; challenge identified in Horizon 2020, the framework programme for research and innovation of the European Commission (2014-2020), and in national funding agencies, clear advice on a potential strategy for mental health research investment is needed. The development of such a strategy is supported by the EC-funded &quot;Roadmap for Mental Health Research&quot; (ROAMER) which will provide recommendations for a European mental health research strategy integrating the areas of biomedicine, psychology, public health well being, research integration and structuring, and stakeholder participation. Leading experts on biomedical research on mental disorders have provided an assessment of the state of the art in core psychopathological domains, including arousal and stress regulation, affect, cognition social processes, comorbidity and pharmacotherapy. They have identified major advances and promising methods and pointed out gaps to be addressed in order to achieve the promise of a stratified medicine for mental disorders.
Data is progressively and robustly accumulating regarding the biological basis of autism. Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are currently considered a group of neurodevelopmental disorders with onset very early in life and a complex, heterogeneous, multifactorial aetiology. A comprehensive search of the last five years of the Medline database was conducted in order to summarize recent evidence on the neurobiological bases of autism. The main findings on genetic influence, neuropathology, neurostructure and brain networks are summarized. In addition, findings from peripheral samples of subjects with autism and animal models, which show immune, oxidative, mitochondrial dysregulations, are reported. Then, other biomarkers from very different systems associated with autism are reported. Finally, an attempt is made to try and integrate the available evidence, which points to a oligogenetic, multifactorial aetiology that converges in an aberrant micro-organization of the cortex, with abnormal functioning of the synapses and abnormalities in very general physiological pathways (such as inflammatory, immune and redox systems).
This study investigated the relationship between severe childhood abuse and cognitive functions in first-episode psychosis patients and geographically-matched controls. Reports of any abuse were associated with lower scores in the executive function domain in the control group. However, in contrast with our hypothesis, no relationships were found amongst cases.

Thymus caramanicus Jalas is one of the species of thymus that grows in the wild in different regions of Iran. Traditionally, leaves of this plant are used in the treatment of diabetes, arthritis, and cancerous situation. Therefore, the present study was designed to investigate the selective cytotoxic and antiproliferative properties of Thymus caramanicus extract (TCE). MCF-7 human breast cancer cells were used in this study. Cytotoxicity of the extract was determined using MTT and neutral red assays. Biochemical markers of apoptosis (caspase 3, Bax, and Bcl-2) and cell proliferation (cyclin D1) were evaluated by immunoblotting. Vincristine was used as anticancer control drug in extract combination therapy. The data showed that incubation of cells with TCE (200 and 250  g/mL) significantly increased cell damage, activated caspase 3 and Bax/Bcl2 ratio. In addition, cyclin D1 was significantly decreased in TCE-treated cells. Furthermore, concomitant treatment of cells with extract and anticancer drug produced a significant cytotoxic effect as compared to extract or drugs alone. In conclusion, thymus extract has a potential proapoptotic/antiproliferative property against human breast cancer cells and its combination with chemotherapeutic agent vincristine may induce cell death effectively and be a potent modality to treat this type of cancer.
Candidosis is the most important cause of fungal infections in humans. The yeast Candida albicans can form biofilms, and it is known that microbial biofilms play an important role in human diseases and are very difficult to treat. The prolonged treatment with drugs has often resulted in failure and resistance. Due to the emergence of multidrug resistance, alternatives to conventional antimicrobial therapy are needed. This study aims to analyse the effects induced by essential oil of Mentha suaveolens Ehrh (EOMS) on Candida albicans and its potential synergism when used in combination with conventional drugs. Morphological differences between control and EOMS treated yeast cells or biofilms were observed by scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (SEM and TEM resp.,). In order to reveal the presence of cell cycle alterations, flow cytometry analysis was carried out as well. The synergic action of EOMS was studied with the checkerboard method, and the cellular damage induced by different treatments was analysed by TEM. The results obtained have demonstrated both the effects of EOMS on C. albicans yeast cells and biofilms and the synergism of EOMS when used in combination with conventional antifungal drugs as fluconazole (FLC) and micafungin (MCFG), and therefore we can hypothesize on its potential use in therapy. Further studies are necessary to know its mechanism of action.
Our previous study showed that a triterpene mixture, consisting of echinocystic acid (EA) and oleanolic acid (OA) at a ratio of 4:1, dose-dependently ameliorated the hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis in rabbits fed with high fat/high cholesterol diets. This study was aimed at exploring the mechanisms underlying antihyperlipidemic effect of EA. Molecular docking simulation of EA was performed using Molegro Virtual Docker (version: 4.3.0) to investigate the potential targets related to lipid metabolism. Based on the molecular docking information, isotope labeling method or spectrophotometry was applied to examine the effect of EA on the activity of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT), and diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) in rat liver microsomes. Our results revealed a strong affinity of EA towards ACAT and DGAT in molecular docking analysis, while low binding affinity existed between EA and HMG-CoA reductase as well as between EA and cholesteryl ester transfer protein. Consistent with the results of molecular docking, in vitro enzyme activity assays showed that EA inhibited ACAT and DGAT, with IC50 values of 103 and 139  M, respectively, and exhibited no significant effect on HMG-CoA reductase activity. The present findings suggest that EA may exert hypolipidemic effect by inhibiting the activity of ACAT and DGAT.
Background/Study Context: Quality of life (QoL) has become an important outcome measure in clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The Quality of Life in Alzheimer's Disease (QoL-AD) Scale is widely used for assessing QoL of patients with AD. This research aims to determine the factor structure of the QoL-AD Scale in AD patients. Methods: One hundred thirty-nine patients with mild-to-moderate AD were administered the QoL-AD Scale. Based on the model proposed for healthy people, confirmatory factor models were built using modification indices and residual analysis to improve the model fit. Results: Confirmatory factor analysis indicated poor fit for both the initial model and the single-factor model. Two models showed a good fit: a three-factor model (perceived health, perceived environment and perceived functional ability) and a two-factor model (perceived physical health and perceived psychological health). Because no differences in fit were found between both models, the authors proposed the more parsimonious solution as the best model. Conclusion: These results provide evidence supporting the construct validity of the QoL-AD Scale. This instrument seems to measure the perception of two related constructs (behavioral competence and environment) and could be used together with instruments measuring psychological well-being and the perception of health.
Increased frequency and risk of infection is one of the well described complications of sickle cell anemia (SCA). Dietary supplementation in children with SCA and growth retardation improved growth and decreased incidence of infection. We investigated the impact of a high protein diet on weight gain, hematological profile, and immune cytokine levels in the Berkeley model of SCA, 16 of which were randomized to either regular mouse diet with 20% of calories from protein (n=8) or a test feed with 35% of calories from protein (n=8). Control mice (C57BL/6, n=16) were correspondingly randomized, and were all feed ad libitum for three months with actual intake estimated by subtracting the weight of gnaw waste from that of the feed given. Blood was collected at sacrifice by cardiac puncture and plasma levels of T helper cell 1 (TH1) and TH2 associated cytokines were measured using a multiplex antibody immobilized bead assay. SCA mice receiving the 35% protein diet had modest improvements in weight, red blood cell count, and hemoglobin level, with a slight decrease in reticulocyte count compared with SCA mice on the regular mouse diet. Furthermore, they also had significantly higher plasma levels of cytokines tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- (P=0.02), interferon (IFN)- (P=0.01), interleukin 10 (IL-10; P=0.02), and IL-4 (P=0.02) compared with those that received the 20% protein diet. We conclude that providing additional protein calories to transgenic SCA mice increased the plasma levels of acute inflammatory cytokines associated with immune response to infection, which might partly explain decreased episodes of infection observed among supplemented children with SCA.
Diabetic foot ulcers are an important complication of diabetes mellitus characterized by chronic, non-healing ulcers resulting from poor proliferation and migration of fibroblasts and keratinocytes, thus impairing a correct re-epithelialization of wounded tissues. This healing process can be modulated by neuropeptides released from peripheral nerves; however, little is known regarding the role of neurotensin (NT) as a modulator of human keratinocyte function under hyperglycemic conditions. Therefore, this work is focused on the effect of NT in human keratinocytes, under normal and hyperglycemic conditions at different functional levels, namely NT receptors, cytokine, and growth factor expression, as well as proliferation and migration. Human keratinocyte cells were maintained at either 10/30mM glucose and treated with or without NT (10nM). The results show that NT did not affect keratinocyte viability. In addition, NT and all NT receptor expression levels were significantly reduced by hyperglycemia; however, NT treatment stimulated expression of NT and neurotensin receptor 2 (NTR2) while neurotensin receptor 1 (NTR1) and neurotensin receptor 3 (NTR3) expression levels were unchanged. Keratinocyte proliferation was not affected by NT and hyperglycemia, while cell migration was reduced by NT treatment. These results demonstrated that hyperglycemic conditions strongly impaired endogenous NT and NTR2 expression in keratinocytes. Despite the addition of exogenous NT to stimulate the endogenous NT and NTR2 expression, these changes do not translate into functional modifications on keratinocytes, particularly in terms of migration, proliferation, and production of cytokines or growth factors. These results suggest that NT production by keratinocytes may exert a paracrine effect on other skin cells, namely fibroblasts, macrophages, and dendritic cells for correct wound healing.
Many older people have impaired dynamic stability, and up to one in three people over 65 fall each year. It is thought that older people walk more slowly to compensate for reduced capabilities. Here, we investigate whether head jerk, the first time derivative of acceleration, can further our understanding of age-associated changes in dynamic stability while walking. Gait parameters including cadence, step length, walking speed, harmonic ratios, step time variability, and jerk were measured in 43 young and 100 older people using accelerometers securely attached to the head and pelvis. Older people presented significantly (p  0.004) more mediolateral (ML) head jerk, but significantly less vertical (VT) head jerk. The dimensionless ratio, ML/VT jerk, demonstrated superior ability (89 % accuracy) in differentiating older from younger people. Principal component analysis indicated that ML/VT jerk was a distinct gait construct. ML/VT jerk was highly reliable, normally distributed, independent of stature or gender, and relatively unaffected by walking speed. In older people, reduced VT head jerk may indicate reduced gait vigour, and increased ML head jerk may indicate age-associated changes to dynamic stability. The smoother head movements evident in our younger group may be because they were more able to rely on automatic control and the dynamic (pendulum-like) stability of their systems.
In addition to being a very well-known ion pump, Na(+), K(+)-ATPase is a cell-cell adhesion molecule and the receptor of digitalis, which transduces regulatory signals for cell adhesion, growth, apoptosis, motility and differentiation. Prolonged ouabain (OUA) blockage of activity of Na(+), K(+)-ATPase leads to cell detachment from one another and from substrates. Here, we investigated the cellular mechanisms involved in tight junction (TJ) disassembly upon exposure to toxic levels of OUA (300 nM) in epithelial renal canine cells (MDCK). OUA induces a progressive decrease in the transepithelial electrical resistance (TER); inhibitors of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR, PD153035), cSrc (SU6656 and PP2) and ERK1/2 kinases (PD98059) delay this decrease. We have determined that the TER decrease depends upon internalization and degradation of the TJs proteins claudin (CLDN) 2, CLDN-4, occludin (OCLN) and zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1). OUA-induced degradation of proteins is either sensitive (CLDN-4, OCLN and ZO-1) or insensitive (CLDN-2) to ERK1/2 inhibition. In agreement with the protein degradation findings, OUA decreases the cellular content of ZO-1 and CLDN-2 mRNAs but surprisingly, increases the mRNA of CLDN-4 and OCLN. Changes in the mRNA levels are sensitive (CLDN-4, OCLN and ZO-1) or insensitive (CLDN-2) to ERK1/2 inhibition as well. Thus, toxic levels of OUA activate the EGFR-cSrc-ERK1/2 pathway to induce endocytosis, internalization and degradation of TJ proteins. We also observed decreases in the levels of CLDN-2 protein and mRNA, which were independent of the EGFR-cSrc-ERK1/2 pathway.
Using an ex vivo skin-nerve preparation, skin and nerve cells were reconstituted into a single unit and maintained in a nutrient medium bath until required experimentally. Our objective was to use the epidermis as a relay for the induction of an electric current to the neurons following the topical application of capsaicin on the skin epidermis of the skin explant, an agonist of the TRPV1 channel implicated in pruritus and pain. After 10-20 days of coculture to form the re-innervated skin model, we applied a solution of capsaicin directly on the epidermis of the skin explant (4 m). The resulting current was recorded using a path-clamp technique on the neuronal fibres. Following the topical application of capsaicin, spontaneous activity was triggered, as characterised by repetitive spikes with periods of 125, 225 or 275 ms. This study demonstrates that the skin explant and nerve cells preparation may receive stimuli and be used to screen molecules or to study signal transmission.
Usher syndrome combines congenital hearing loss and retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Mutations in the whirlin gene (DFNB31/WHRN) cause a subtype of Usher syndrome (USH2D). Whirler mice have a defective whirlin gene. They have inner ear defects but usually do not develop retinal degeneration. Here we report that, in whirler mouse photoreceptors, the light-activated rod transducin translocation is delayed and its activation threshold is shifted to a higher level. Rhodopsin mis-localization is observed in rod inner segments. Continuous moderate light exposure can induce significant rod photoreceptor degeneration. Whirler mice reared under a 1500lux light/dark cycle also develop severe photoreceptor degeneration. Previously, we have reported that shaker1 mice, a USH1B model, show moderate light-induced photoreceptor degeneration with delayed transducin translocation. Here, we further show that, in both whirler and shaker1 mice, short-term moderate light/dark changes can induce rod degeneration as severe as that induced by continuous light exposure. The results from shaker1 and whirler mice suggest that defective transducin translocation may be functionally related to light-induced degeneration, and these two symptoms may be caused by defects in Usher protein function in rods. Furthermore, these results indicate that both Usher syndrome mouse models possess a light-induced retinal phenotype and may share a closely related pathobiological mechanism.
In this preliminary study we assessed the functioning of the different attentional networks in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, taking as theoretical framework the Posner's cognitive neuroscience approach. Two groups of participants were tested in a single short experiment: 20 MCI patients (6 amnestic, 6 non-amnestic and 8 multiple-domain) and 18 healthy matched controls (HC). For attentional assessment we used a version of the Attention Network Test (the ANTI-V) that provided not only a score of the orienting, the executive, and the alerting networks and their interactions, but also an independent measure of vigilance (tonic alerting). The results showed that all subtypes of MCI patients exhibited a selective impairment in the tonic component of alerting, as indexed by a decrease in the d' sensitivity index, and their performance in executive network increased up to the HC group level when phasic alerting was provided by a warning tone. Our findings suggest that a core attentional deficit, especially the endogenous component of alerting, may significantly contribute to the behavioral and cognitive deficits associated with MCI.

Peripheral nerve injuries caused by trauma are associated with increased sensory neuron excitability and debilitating chronic pain symptoms. Axotomy-induced alterations in the function of ion channels are thought to largely underlie the pathophysiology of these phenotypes. Here, we characterise the mRNA distribution of Kv2 family members in rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and describe a link between Kv2 function and modulation of sensory neuron excitability. Kv2.1 and Kv2.2 were amply expressed in cells of all sizes, being particularly abundant in medium-large neurons also immunoreactive for neurofilament-200. Peripheral axotomy led to a rapid, robust and long-lasting transcriptional Kv2 downregulation in the DRG, correlated with the onset of mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity. The consequences of Kv2 loss-of-function were subsequently investigated in myelinated neurons using intracellular recordings on ex vivo DRG preparations. In nave neurons, pharmacological Kv2.1/Kv2.2 inhibition by stromatoxin-1 (ScTx) resulted in shortening of action potential (AP) after-hyperpolarization (AHP). In contrast, ScTx application on axotomized neurons did not alter AHP duration, consistent with the injury-induced Kv2 downregulation. In accordance with a shortened AHP, ScTx treatment also reduced the refractory period and improved AP conduction to the cell soma during high frequency stimulation. These results suggest that Kv2 downregulation following traumatic nerve lesion facilitates greater fidelity of repetitive firing during prolonged input and thus normal Kv2 function is postulated to limit neuronal excitability. In summary, we have profiled Kv2 expression in sensory neurons and provide evidence for the contribution of Kv2 dysfunction in the generation of hyperexcitable phenotypes encountered in chronic pain states.

Pathological high frequency oscillations (pHFOs) have been proposed to be robust markers of epileptic cortex. Oscillatory activity below this frequency range has been shown to be modulated by phase of lower frequency oscillations. Here, we tested the hypothesis that dynamic cross-frequency interactions involving pHFOs are concentrated within the epileptogenic cortex. Intracranial electroencephalographic recordings from 17 children with medically-intractable epilepsy secondary to focal cortical dysplasia were obtained. A time-resolved analysis was performed to determine topographic concentrations and dynamic changes in cross-frequency amplitude-to-phase coupling (CFC). CFC between pHFOs and the phase of theta and alpha rhythms was found to be significantly elevated in the seizure-onset zone compared to non-epileptic regions (p&lt;0.01). Data simulations showed that elevated CFC could not be attributed to the presence of sharp transients or other signal properties. The phase of low frequency oscillations at which pHFO amplitudes were maximal was inconsistent at seizure initiation, yet consistently at the trough of the low frequency rhythm at seizure termination. Amplitudes of pHFOs were most significantly modulated by the phase of alpha-band oscillations (p&lt;0.01). These results suggest that increased CFC between pHFO amplitude and alpha phase may constitute a marker of epileptogenic brain areas and may be relevant for understanding seizure dynamics.
In addition to detrimental inflammation, widespread axon degeneration is an important feature of multiple sclerosis (MS) pathology and a major correlate for permanent clinical deficits. Thus, treatments that combine immunomodulatory and neuroprotective effects are beneficial for MS. Using myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide 35-55 (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) as a model of MS, we recently showed that daily treatment with the phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor sildenafil at peak disease rapidly ameliorates clinical symptoms and neuropathology (Pifarre et al., 2011). We have now investigated the immunomodulatory and neuroprotective actions of sildenafil treatment from the onset of EAE when the immune response prevails and show that early administration of the drug prevents disease progression. Ultrastructural analysis of spinal cord evidenced that sildenafil treatment preserves axons and myelin and increases the number of remyelinating axons. Immunostaining of oligodendrocytes at different stages of differentiation showed that sildenafil protects immature and mature myelinating oligodendrocytes. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a recognized neuroprotectant in EAE, was up-regulated by sildenafil in immune and neural cells suggesting its implication in the beneficial effects of the drug. RNA microarray analysis of spinal cord revealed that sildenafil up-regulates YM-1, a marker of the alternative macrophage/microglial M2 phenotype that has neuroprotective and regenerative properties. Immunostaining confirmed up-regulation of YM-1 while the classical macrophage/microglial activation marker Iba-1 was down-regulated. Microarray analysis also showed a notable up-regulation of several members of the granzyme B cluster (GrBs). Immunostaining revealed expression of GrBs in Foxp3+-T regulatory cells (Tregs) suggesting a role for these proteases in sildenafil-induced suppression of T effector cells (Teffs). In vitro analysis of splenocytes from sildenafil-treated animals showed down-regulation of Th1/Th2/Th17 responses while Tregs were up-regulated. Additionally, sildenafil treatment prevented MOG-specific IgG2b accumulation in serum. Taken together these data demonstrates that daily sildenafil treatment from the initiation of EAE symptoms prevents further clinical deterioration by stimulating immunomodulatory and neuroprotective mechanisms. Importantly, we also show here that sildenafil enhances the ability of human Tregs from healthy donors to down-regulate the proliferation of Teffs in vitro, strongly supporting the potential of sildenafil for therapeutic intervention in MS.
After inflammation-induced demyelination, such as in the disease multiple sclerosis, endogenous remyelination often fails. However, in animal models of demyelination induced with toxins, remyelination can be quite robust. A significant difference between inflammation-induced and toxin-induced demyelination is the response of local cells within the lesion, including astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia/macrophages, and NG2+ cells, which respond to inflammatory stimuli with increased extracellular matrix (ECM) protein and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) production and deposition. Here, we summarize current knowledge of ECM changes in demyelinating lesions, as well as oligodendrocyte responses to aberrant ECM proteins and CSPGs after various types of demyelinating insults. The discovery that CSPGs act through the receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase sigma (PTP) and the Rho-ROCK pathway to inhibit oligodendrocyte process extension and myelination, but not oligodendrocyte differentiation (Pendleton et al., Experimental Neurology (2013) vol. 247, pp. 113-121), highlights the need to better understand the ECM changes that accompany demyelination and their influence on oligodendrocytes and effective remyelination.
Rat fetal spinal cord (FSC) tissue, naturally enriched with interneuronal progenitors, was introduced into high cervical, hemi-resection (Hx) lesions. Electrophysiological analyses were conducted to determine if such grafts exhibit physiologically-patterned neuronal activity and if stimuli which increase respiratory motor output also alter donor neuron bursting. Three months following transplantation, the bursting activity of FSC neurons and the contralateral phrenic nerve were recorded in anesthetized rats during a normoxic baseline period and brief respiratory challenges. Spontaneous neuronal activity was detected in 80% of the FSC transplants, and autocorrelation of action potential spikes revealed distinct correlogram peaks in 87% of neurons. At baseline, the average discharge frequency of graft neurons was 13.0  1.7 Hz, and discharge frequency increased during a hypoxic respiratory challenge (p&lt;0.001). Parallel studies in unanesthetized rats showed that FSC tissue recipients had larger inspiratory tidal volumes during brief hypoxic exposures (p&lt;0.05 vs. C2Hx rats). Anatomical connectivity was explored in additional graft recipients by injecting a transsynaptic retrograde viral tracer (pseudorabies virus, PRV) directly into matured transplants. Neuronal labeling occurred throughout graft tissues and also in the host spinal cord and brainstem nuclei, including those associated with respiratory control. These results underscore the neuroplastic potential of host-graft interactions and training approaches to enhance functional integration within targeted spinal circuitry.
Tau hyper-phosphorylation (p-Tau) and neuro-inflammation are hallmarks of neurodegeneration. Previous findings suggest that microglial activation via CX3CL1 promotes p-Tau. We examined inflammation and autophagic p-Tau clearance in lentiviral Tau and mutant P301L expressing rats and used lentiviral A1-42 to induce p-Tau. Lentiviral Tau or P301L expression significantly increased caspase-3 activity and TNF-, but CX3CL1 was significantly higher in animals expressing Tau compared to P301L. Lentiviral A1-42 induced p-Tau 4 weeks post-injection, and increased caspase-3 activation (8-fold) and TNF- levels. Increased levels of ADAM-10/17 were also detected with p-Tau. IL-6 levels were increased but CX3CL1 did not change in the absence of p-Tau (2 weeks); however, p-Tau reversed these effects, which were associated with increased microglial activity. We observed changes in autophagic markers, including accumulation of autophagic vacuoles (AVs) and p-Tau accumulation in autophagosomes but not lysosomes, suggesting alteration of autophagy. Taken together, microglial activation may promote p-Tau independent of total Tau levels via CX3CL1 signaling, which seems to depend on interaction with inflammatory markers, mainly IL-6. The simultaneous change in autophagy and CX3CL1 signaling suggests communication between microglia and neurons, raising the possibility that accumulation of intraneuronal amyloid, due to lack of autophagic clearance, may lead microglia activation to promote p-Tau as a tag for phagocytic degradation.
This lecture is about the history of the purinergic signalling concept. It begins with reference to the paper by Paton &amp; Vane published in 1963, which identified non-cholinergic relaxation in response to vagal nerve stimulation in several species, although they suggested that it might be due to sympathetic adrenergic nerves in the vagal nerve trunk. Using the sucrose gap technique for simultaneous mechanical and electrical recordings in smooth muscle (developed while in Feldberg's department in the National Institute for Medical Research) of the guinea-pig taenia coli preparation (learned when working in Edith Blbring's smooth muscle laboratory in Oxford Pharmacology), we showed that the hyperpolarizations recorded in the presence of antagonists to the classical autonomic neurotransmitters, acetylcholine and noradrenaline, were inhibitory junction potentials in response to non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic neurotransmission, mediated by intrinsic enteric nerves controlled by vagal and sacral parasympathetic nerves. We then showed that ATP satisfied the criteria needed to identify a neurotransmitter released by these nerves. Subsequently, it was shown that ATP is a cotransmitter in all nerves in the peripheral and central nervous systems. The receptors for purines and pyrimidines were cloned and characterized in the early 1990 s, and immunostaining showed that most non-neuronal cells as well as nerve cells expressed these receptors. The physiology and pathophysiology of purinergic signalling is discussed.
The paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus plays an important role in the regulation of sympathetic nerve activity, which is significantly elevated in chronic heart failure (CHF). Fractalkine (FKN) and its cognate receptor, CX3CR1, are constitutively expressed in the central nervous system, but their role and physiological significance are not well known. The aims of the present study were to determine whether FKN plays a cardiovascular role within the PVN and to investigate how the actions of FKN might be altered in CHF. We show that both FKN and CX3CR1 are expressed on neurons in the PVN of rats, suggesting that they may have a physiological function in this brain nucleus. Unilateral microinjection of FKN directly into the PVN of anaesthetized rats elicited a significant dose-related decrease in blood pressure (1.0 nmol, -5  3 mmHg; 2.5 nmol, -13  2 mmHg; 5.0 nmol, -22  3 mmHg; and 7.5 nmol, -32  3 mmHg) and a concomitant increase in heart rate (1.0 nmol, 6  3 beats min(-1); 2.5 nmol, 11  3 beats min(-1); 5 nmol, 18  4 beats min(-1); and 7.5 nmol, 27  5 beats min(-1)) compared with control saline microinjections. In order to determine whether FKN signalling is altered in rats with CHF, we first performed quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot analysis and followed these experiments with functional studies in rats with CHF and sham-operated control rats. We found a significant increase in CX3CR1 mRNA and protein expression, as determined by quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively, in the PVN of rats with CHF compared with sham-operated control rats. We also found that the blood pressure effects of FKN (2.5 nmol in 50 nl) were significantly attenuated in rats with CHF (change in mean arterial pressure, -6  3 mmHg) compared with sham-operated control rats (change in mean arterial pressure, -16  6 mmHg). These data suggest that FKN and its receptor, CX3CR1, modulate cardiovascular function at the level of the PVN and that the actions of FKN within this nucleus are altered in heart failure.
Power spectral analysis of fetal heart rate variability has been proposed to provide a non-invasive estimate of autonomic balance. However, there are few systematic data before birth. We therefore examined developmental changes in the frequency power spectrum at very low (0-0.04 Hz), low (0.04-0.15 Hz) and high frequencies (0.15-0.4 Hz), as well as the ratio of low- to high-frequency power (LF/HF), in chronically catheterized, healthy fetal sheep at 0.6 (n = 8), 0.7 (n = 7) and 0.8 gestational age (ga; n = 11). In a second study, 0.8 ga fetuses received either atropine (4.8 mg bolus, then 4.8 mg h(-1) for 30 min, n = 6) or 6-hydroxydopamine (20 mg ml(-1) at 2.5 ml h(-1) for 3 h; n = 9). Data were analysed by sleep state, defined by low-voltage-high-frequency (LV) or high-voltage-low-frequency (HV) EEG. Total spectral power increased with gestational age (P &lt; 0.05), while LF/HF decreased from 0.6 to 0.7 ga. At 0.8 ga, heart rate and LF/HF were significantly higher during HV than LV sleep (P &lt; 0.05). Consistent with this, although total spectral power was not significantly greater during HV sleep, there was a significant interaction between sleep state and frequency band (P = 0.02). Both atropine (P = 0.05) and 6-hydroxydopamine (P &lt; 0.05) were associated with an overall reduction in spectral power but no significant effect on the LF/HF ratio. This study does not support substantial, consistent differences between the frequencies of sympathetic and parasympathetic activity in late-gestation fetal sheep.
In their paper &quot;The Musical Stroop Effect: Opening a New Avenue to Research on Automatisms,&quot; &lt;citationReference id=&quot;cr4-1&quot; rid=&quot;c4&quot;&gt;Grgoire, Perruchet, and Poulin-Charronnat (2013)&lt;/citationReference&gt; use a musical Stroop-like task to demonstrate the automaticity of musical note naming in musicians. In addition, the authors suggest that music training can serve as a tool in order to study the acquisition of automaticity. In the following commentary, we aim to address three main issues concerning the paper by &lt;citationReference id=&quot;cr4-2&quot; rid=&quot;c4&quot;&gt;Grgoire et al. (2013)&lt;/citationReference&gt;. First, we will suggest some additional interpretations of the results; specifically, we will relate to the association between music and space. Second, we will discuss a methodological issue dealing with interference, facilitation, and the role of the neutral condition. We suggest that the study by &lt;citationReference id=&quot;cr4-3&quot; rid=&quot;c4&quot;&gt;Grgoire et al. (2013)&lt;/citationReference&gt; lacks a proper neutral condition and thus it is impossible to assert that the congruency effect is interference based. Third, we will discuss the authors' suggestion of using the musical Stroop effect as a tool for studying automatism. We consider the practical relevance of music training as a tool for studying the acquisition of automaticity by pointing out that music training is highly heterogeneous.
We investigated if certain phases of performance monitoring show differential sensitivity to external feedback and thus rely on distinct mechanisms. The phases of interest were: the error phase (FE), the phase of the correct response after errors (FEC), and the phase of correct responses following corrects (FCC). We tested accuracy and reaction time (RT) on 12 conditions of a continuous-choice-response task; the 2-back task. External feedback was either presented or not in FE and FEC, and delivered on 0%, 20%, or 100% of FCC trials. The FCC was matched to FE and FEC in the number of sounds received so that we could investigate when external feedback was most valuable to the participants. We found that external feedback led to a reduction in accuracy when presented on all the correct responses. Moreover, RT was significantly reduced for FCC, which in turn correlated with the accuracy reduction. Interestingly, the correct response after an error was particularly sensitive to external feedback since accuracy was reduced when external feedback was presented during this phase but not for FCC. Notably, error-monitoring was not influenced by feedback-type. The results are in line with models suggesting that the internal error-monitoring system is sufficient in cognitively demanding tasks where performance is  80%, as well as theories stipulating that external feedback directs attention away from the task. Our data highlight the first correct response after an error as particularly sensitive to external feedback, suggesting that important consolidation of response strategy takes place here.
Cognitive control has been extensively studied using the auditory and visual modalities. In the current study, a tactile version of the Simon task was created in order to test control mechanisms in a modality that was less studied, to provide comparative and new information. A significant Simon effect--reaction time gap between congruent (i.e., stimulus and response in the same relative location) and incongruent (i.e., stimulus and response in opposite locations) stimuli--provided grounds to further examine both general and tactile-specific aspects of cognitive control in three experiments. By implementing a neutral condition and conducting sequential and distributional analysis, the present study: (a) supports two different independent mechanisms of cognitive control--reactive control and proactive control; (b) reveals facilitation and interference within the tactile Simon effect; and (c) proposes modality differences in activation and processing of the spatially driven stimulus-response association.

Bile acids (BA) are actively reabsorbed in the terminal ileum by the apical Na(+)-dependent bile salt transporter. This review addresses the epidemiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of BA diarrhea (BAD). BAD is typically caused by ileal resection or disease; 25-33% of patients with chronic functional diarrhea or irritable bowel syndrome-diarrhea (IBS-D) have BAD, possibly from deficiency in the ileal hormone, FGF-19, which normally provides feedback inhibition of BA synthesis. Diagnosis of BAD is typically based on reduced BA retention of radiolabeled BA ((75)SeHCAT), increased BA synthesis (serum C4) or increased fecal BA loss. In clinical practice, diagnosis is often based on response to BA sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine or colesevelam). Diagnostic tests for BA malabsorption (BAM) need to be used more extensively in clinical practice. In the future, farnesoid X receptor agonists that stimulate ileal production of FGF-19 may be alternative treatments of BAD.
This article briefly introduces the basics of multiple sclerosis' (MS) clinical hallmarks and pathophysiology. Vitamin D is presented, including its metabolism and effects on the immune system. The epidemiological observations linking vitamin D to MS range from a half century old findings of latitude gradients and migrational risk patterns to modern, nested, case-control biobank studies. These observations show an association without doubt although causation has yet to be proven. Vitamin D as a treatment for MS is an emerging concept and both current and anticipated data will be covered. Lastly, we discuss future challenges, ideas on how to move from association to causation, and the prospect of primary prevention of this disabling disease.
The engulfment of a proto-mitochondrion by a primitive unicellular organism gave rise to the first eukaryotic cell, and ever since, mitochondrial function has been a vital aspect of eukaryotic life. Under conditions of physiological stress, the mitochondrion is far from a passive bystander, instead playing a key role in signalling pathways and the cellular responses they elicit. In this thematic series of Extreme Physiology &amp; Medicine, the role of the mitochondrion in the response to physiological stress will be considered anew, through research articles, reviews, viewpoints and methodology papers that aim to reposition the organelle as a key player in the human response to a wide range of extreme conditions.
The human ROCO proteins are a family of multi-domain proteins sharing a conserved ROC-COR supra-domain. The family has four members: leucine-rich repeat kinase 1 (LRRK1), leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1) and malignant fibrous histiocytoma amplified sequences with leucine-rich tandem repeats 1 (MASL1). Previous studies of LRRK1/2 and DAPK1 have shown that the ROC (Ras of complex proteins) domain can bind and hydrolyse GTP, but the cellular consequences of this activity are still unclear. Here, the first biochemical characterization of MASL1 and the impact of GTP binding on MASL1 complex formation are reported. The results demonstrate that MASL1, similar to other ROCO proteins, can bind guanosine nucleotides via its ROC domain. Furthermore, MASL1 exists in two distinct cellular complexes associated with heat shock protein 60, and the formation of a low molecular weight pool of MASL1 is modulated by GTP binding. Finally, loss of GTP enhances MASL1 toxicity in cells. Taken together, these data point to a central role for the ROC/GTPase domain of MASL1 in the regulation of its cellular function.
Stable and soluble proteins are ideal candidates for functional and structural studies. Unfortunately, some proteins or enzymes can be difficult to isolate, being sometimes poorly expressed in heterologous systems, insoluble and/or unstable. Numerous methods have been developed to address these issues, from the screening of various expression systems to the modification of the target protein itself. Here we use a hydrophobic, aggregation-prone, phosphate-binding protein (HPBP) as a case study. We describe a simple and fast method that selectively uses ancestral mutations to generate a soluble, stable and functional variant of the target protein, here named sHPBP. This variant is highly expressed in Escherichia coli, is easily purified and its structure was solved at much higher resolution than its wild-type progenitor (1.3 versus 1.9, respectively).
Painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is a common complication of diabetes and the few approved therapies for the management of pain have limited efficacy and side effects. With the aim to explore and develop new pharmacological treatments, we investigated the antihyperalgesic properties of St. John's Wort (SJW) and feverfew in streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats. Acute administration of a SJW seed extract reversed mechanical hyperalgesia with a prolonged effect. A SJW extract obtained from the aerial portion of the plant and a feverfew flower extract partially relieved neuropathic pain whereas a feverfew leaf extract was ineffective. The antihyperalgesic efficacy of these herbal drugs was comparable to that of clinically used antihyperalgesic drugs (carbamazepine, lamotrigine, l-acetyl-levocarnitine). Further examinations of SJW and feverfew composition revealed that hyperforin and hypericin might be responsible for the antihyperalgesic properties of SJW whereas the efficacy of feverfew seems to be related to the presence of parthenolide. Rats undergoing treatment with SJW and feverfew did not show any behavioral side effect or sign of altered locomotor activity. Our results suggest that SJW and feverfew extracts may become new therapeutic perspectives for painful DPN.
The hippocampus is important for learning tasks, such as conditioned place preference (CPP), which is widely used as a model for studying the reinforcing effects of drugs with dependence liability. Long-term opiate use may produce maladaptive plasticity in the brain structures involved in learning and memory, such as the hippocampus. We investigated the phenomenon of conditioning with morphine on the cell density of female rat hippocampus. Forty-eight female Wistar rats weighing on average 200-250 g were used. Rats were distributed into eight groups. Experimental groups received morphine daily (three days) at different doses (2.5, 5, 7.5 mg/kg) and the control-saline group received normal saline (1 ml/kg), and then the CPP test was performed. Three sham groups received only different doses (2.5, 5, 7.5 mg/kg) of morphine without CPP test. Forty-eight hours after behavioural testing animals were decapitated under chloroform anaesthesia and their brains were fixed, and after tissue processing, slices were stained with cresyl violet for neurons and phosphotungstic acid haematoxylin for astrocytes. The maximum response was obtained with 5 mg/kg of morphine. The density of neurons in CA1 and CA3 areas of hippocampus after injection of morphine and CPP was decreased. The number of astrocytes in different areas of hippocampus was increased after injection of morphine and CPP. It seems that the effective dose was 5 mg/kg, as it led to the CPP. We concluded that both injection of mor phine and CPP can decrease the density of neurons and also increase the number of astrocytes in the rat hippocampus.


The skeletal fibers have different embryological origin; the extraocular and jaw-closer muscles develop from prechordal mesoderm while the limb and trunk muscles from somites. These different origins characterize also the adult muscle stem cells, known as satellite cells (SCs) and responsible for the fiber growth and regeneration. The physiological properties of presomitic SCs and their epigenetics are poorly studied despite their peculiar characteristics to preserve muscle integrity during chronic muscle degeneration. Here, we isolated SCs from canine somitic [somite-derived muscle (SDM): vastus lateralis, rectus abdominis, gluteus superficialis, biceps femoris, psoas] and presomitic [pre-somite-derived muscle (PSDM): lateral rectus, temporalis, and retractor bulbi] muscles as myogenic progenitor cells from young and old animals. In addition, SDM and PSDM-SCs were obtained also from golden retrievers affected by muscular dystrophy (GRMD). We characterized the lifespan, the myogenic potential and functions, and oxidative stress of both somitic and presomitic SCs with the aim to reveal differences with aging and between healthy and dystrophic animals. The different proliferation rate was consistent with higher telomerase activity in PSDM-SCs compared to SDM-SCs, although restricted at early passages. SDM-SCs express early (Pax7, MyoD) and late (myosin heavy chain, myogenin) myogenic markers differently from PSDM-SCs resulting in a more efficient and faster cell differentiation. Taken together, our results showed that PSDM-SCs elicit a stronger stem cell phenotype compared to SDM ones. Finally, myomiR expression profile reveals a unique epigenetic signature in GRMD SCs and miR-206, highly expressed in dystrophic SCs, seems to play a critical role in muscle degeneration. Thus, miR-206 could represent a potential target for novel therapeutic approaches.


The LOU/C/Jall (LOU) rat strain is considered a model of healthy aging due to its increased longevity, maintenance of stable body weight (BW) throughout life and low incidence of age-related diseases. However, aging LOU rat cognitive and anxiety status has yet to be investigated. In the present study, male and female LOU rat cognitive performances (6-42 months) were assessed using novel object recognition and Morris Water Maze tasks. Recognition memory remained intact in all LOU rats up to 42 months of age. As for spatial memory, old LOU rat performed similarly as young animals for learning acquisition, reversal learning, and retention. While LOU rat BW remained stable despite aging, 20-month-old ad-libitum-fed (OAL) male Sprague Dawley rats become obese. We determined if long-term caloric restriction (LTCR) prevents age-related BW increase and cognitive deficits in this rat strain, as observed in the obesity-resistant LOU rats. Compared to young animals, recognition memory was impaired in OAL but intact in 20-month-old calorie-restricted (OCR) rats. Similarly, OAL spatial learning acquisition was impaired but LTCR prevented the deficits. Exacerbated stress responses may favor age-related cognitive decline. In the elevated plus maze and open field tasks, LOU and OCR rats exhibited high levels of exploratory activity whereas OAL rats displayed anxious behaviors. Expression of prodynorphin (Pdyn), an endogenous peptide involved in stress-related memory impairments, was increased in the hippocampus of OAL rats. Group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 and immediate early genes Homer 1a and Arc expression, both associated with successful cognitive aging, were unaltered in aging LOU rats but lower in OAL than OCR rats. Altogether, our results, supported by principal component analysis and correlation matrix, suggest that intact memory and low anxiety are associated with glutamatergic signaling and low Pdyn expression in the hippocampus of non-obese aging rats.
Cerebral atrophy is one of the most widely brain alterations associated to aging. A clear relationship has been established between age-associated cognitive impairments and cerebral atrophy. The mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus) is a small primate used as a model of age-related neurodegenerative processes. It is the first non-human primate in which cerebral atrophy has been correlated with cognitive deficits. Previous studies of cerebral atrophy in this model were based on time consuming manual delineation or measurement of selected brain regions from magnetic resonance images (MRI). These measures could not be used to analyse regions that cannot be easily outlined such as the nucleus basalis of Meynert or the subiculum. In humans, morphometric assessment of structural changes with age is generally performed with automated procedures such as voxel-based morphometry (VBM). The objective of our work was to perform user-independent assessment of age-related morphological changes in the whole brain of large mouse lemur populations thanks to VBM. The study was based on the SPMMouse toolbox of SPM 8 and involved thirty mouse lemurs aged from 1.9 to 11.3 years. The automatic method revealed for the first time atrophy in regions where manual delineation is prohibitive (nucleus basalis of Meynert, subiculum, prepiriform cortex, Brodmann areas 13-16, hypothalamus, putamen, thalamus, corpus callosum). Some of these regions are described as particularly sensitive to age-associated alterations in humans. The method revealed also age-associated atrophy in cortical regions (cingulate, occipital, parietal), nucleus septalis, and the caudate. Manual measures performed in some of these regions were in good agreement with results from automatic measures. The templates generated in this study as well as the toolbox for SPM8 can be downloaded. These tools will be valuable for future evaluation of various treatments that are tested to modulate cerebral aging in lemurs.
Generalized slowing characterizes aging and there is some evidence to suggest that this slowing already starts at midlife. This study aims to assess reaction time changes while performing a concurrent low-force and high-force motor task in young and middle-aged subjects. The high-force motor task is designed to induce muscle fatigue and thereby progressively increase the attentional demands. Twenty-five young (20-30 years, 12 males) and 16 middle-aged (35-55 years, 9 males) adults performed an auditory two-choice reaction time task (CRT) with and without a concurrent low- or high-force motor task. The CRT required subjects to respond to two different stimuli that occurred with a probability of 70 or 30%. The motor task consisted of index finger abduction, at either 10% (10%-dual-task) or 30% (30%-dual-task) of maximal voluntary force. Cognitive task performance was measured as percentage of correct responses and reaction times. Middle-aged subjects responded slower on the frequent but more accurately on the infrequent stimuli of CRT than young subjects. Both young and middle-aged subjects showed increased errors and reaction times while performing under dual-task conditions and both outcome measures increased further under fatiguing conditions. Only under 30%-dual-task demands, an age-effect on dual-task performance was present. Both single- and dual-task conditions showed that already at mid-life response preparation is seriously declined and that subjects implement different strategies to perform a CRT task.
Numerous studies have documented the normal age-related decline of neural structure, function, and cognitive performance. Preliminary evidence suggests that meditation may reduce decline in specific cognitive domains and in brain structure. Here we extended this research by investigating the relation between age and fluid intelligence and resting state brain functional network architecture using graph theory, in middle-aged yoga and meditation practitioners, and matched controls. Fluid intelligence declined slower in yoga practitioners and meditators combined than in controls. Resting state functional networks of yoga practitioners and meditators combined were more integrated and more resilient to damage than those of controls. Furthermore, mindfulness was positively correlated with fluid intelligence, resilience, and global network efficiency. These findings reveal the possibility to increase resilience and to slow the decline of fluid intelligence and brain functional architecture and suggest that mindfulness plays a mechanistic role in this preservation.
Age-related hearing loss (ARHL) is marked by audiometric hearing deficits that propagate along the auditory pathway. Neurochemical changes as a function of aging have also been identified in neurons along the auditory pathway in both rodents and carnivores, however, very little is known about how these neurochemicals change in the non-human primate. To examine how these compensatory neurochemical changes relate to normal aging and audiometric sensitivity along the auditory pathway, we collected auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) and brain specimens from seven rhesus monkeys spanning in age from 15 to 35 years old, and examined the relationship between click evoked ABR thresholds and the ABR evoked pure tone average (PTA) and changes in the number of parvalbumin and NADPH-diaphorase positive cells in the auditory midbrain. We found that the number of parvalbumin positive cells in the central nucleus and the surrounding cortex regions of the inferior colliculus were strongly correlated with advancing age and ABR PTA. We also found that the numbers of NADPHd positive cells in these same regions were not associated with normal aging or changes in the ABR thresholds. These findings suggest that the auditory midbrain undergoes an up-regulation of parvalbumin expressing neurons with aging that is related to changes in the processing of frequencies across the audiometric range.

We present an evaluation of a self-administered, biofeedback-aided, alertness training programme called the Alertness: Training for Focused Living (ATFL) Programme, which was developed as part of the Technology Research for Independent Living (TRIL) collaboration. We conducted two studies in order to evaluate the programme. A randomized controlled trial was, first of all, conducted with 40 older adults aged between 60 and 83. A series of five single case studies was then conducted to examine the suitability of the programme for use with people with more severe memory difficulties. In the randomized controlled trial, participants were assigned to the ATFL Programme or to a placebo programme. Aspects of participants' memory, attention and executive functioning were assessed via telephone prior to and following completion of the training programmes and at 1, 3, and 6-month follow-up sessions. Significant improvements in sustained attention and verbal fluency were noted in the ATFL group. The series of single case studies illustrated the importance of tailoring a programme to the needs and abilities of the clients in question. The potential benefits of the ATFL programme in terms of periodically boosting alertness and aiding executive functioning are discussed.


The brain's vasculature is likely to be subjected to the same age-related physiological and anatomical changes affecting the rest of the cardiovascular system. Since aerobic fitness is known to alleviate both cognitive and volumetric losses in the brain, it is important to investigate some of the possible mechanisms underlying these beneficial changes. Here we investigated the role that estimated cardiorespiratory fitness (eCRF) plays in determining the relationship between aging and cerebral blood flow (CBF) in a group of older adults (ages 55-85). Using arterial spin labeling to quantify CBF, we found that blood flow in the gray matter was positively correlated with eCRF and negatively correlated with age. Subsequent analyses revealed that eCRF fully mediated the effects of age on CBF in the gray matter, but not in the white matter. Additionally, regional measures of CBF were related to regional measures of brain volume. These findings provide evidence that age-related effects on cerebrovascular health and perfusion in older adults are largely influenced by their eCRF levels.
Interference control and conflict resolution is affected by ageing. There is increasing evidence that ageing does not compromise interference control in general but rather shows distinctive effects on different components of interference control. Different conflict types, [e.g., stimulus-stimulus (S-S) or stimulus-response (S-R) conflicts] trigger different cognitive processes and thus activate different neural networks. In the present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, we used a combined Flanker and Stimulus Response Conflict (SRC) task to investigate the effect of ageing on S-S and S-R conflicts. Behavioral data analysis revealed larger SRC effects in elderly. fMRI Results show that both age groups recruited similar regions [caudate nucleus, cingulate gyrus and middle occipital gyrus (MOG)] during Flanker conflict processing. Furthermore, elderly show an additional activation pattern in parietal and frontal areas. In contrast, no common activation of both age groups was found in response to the SRC. These data suggest that ageing has distinctive effects on S-S and S-R conflicts.
Previous research suggests specific deficits in face perception and memory in older adults, which could reflect a dedifferentiation in the context of a general broadening of cognitive architecture with advanced age. Such dedifferentiation could manifest in a less specialized face processing system. A promising tool to investigate the fine-tuning of face processing in older age is the own-race bias (ORB), a phenomenon reflecting more accurate memory for own-relative to other-race faces, which is related to an expertise-based specialization of early perceptual stages. To investigate whether poor face memory in older age is accompanied by reduced expertise-based specialization of face processing, we assessed event-related brain potential correlates of the ORB in high- vs. low-performing older adults (mean age = 69 years; N = 24 per group). Intriguingly, both older groups demonstrated an equivalent pattern of a behavioral ORB, and a parallel increase in N170 for other-race faces, reflecting less efficient early perceptual processing for this face category. Group differences only emerged independent of face ethnicity: whereas low-performers exhibited a right-lateralized N170, high-performers showed a more bilateral response. This finding may suggest a compensatory mechanism counteracting age-related decline in face perception enabling more efficient encoding into memory in high performers. Overall, our results demonstrate that even a less efficient face processing system in older adults can exhibit preserved expertise-related specialization toward own-race faces.
Alzheimer's disease and other related disorders (ADRD) represent a major challenge for health care systems within the aging population. It is therefore important to develop better instruments to assess the disease severity and progression, as well as to improve its treatment, stimulation, and rehabilitation. This is the underlying idea for the development of Serious Games (SG). These are digital applications specially adapted for purposes other than entertaining; such as rehabilitation, training and education. Recently, there has been an increase of interest in the use of SG targeting patients with ADRD. However, this field is completely uncharted, and the clinical, ethical, economic and research impact of the employment of SG in these target populations has never been systematically addressed. The aim of this paper is to systematically analyze the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) of employing SG with patients with ADRD in order to provide practical recommendations for the development and use of SG in these populations. These analyses and recommendations were gathered, commented on and validated during a 2-round workshop in the context of the 2013 Clinical Trial of Alzheimer's Disease (CTAD) conference, and endorsed by stakeholders in the field. The results revealed that SG may offer very useful tools for professionals involved in the care of patients suffering from ADRD. However, more interdisciplinary work should be done in order to create SG specifically targeting these populations. Furthermore, in order to acquire more academic and professional credibility and acceptance, it will be necessary to invest more in research targeting efficacy and feasibility. Finally, the emerging ethical challenges should be considered a priority.
The association between cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) - in the form of white matter lesions, infarctions, and hemorrhages - with vascular cognitive impairment (VCI), has mostly been deduced from observational studies. Pathological conditions affecting the small vessels of the brain and leading to SVD have suggested plausible molecular mechanisms involved in vascular damage and their impact on brain function. However, much still needs to be clarified in understanding the pathophysiology of VCI, the role of neurodegenerative processes such as Alzheimer's disease, and the impact of aging itself. In addition, both genetic predispositions and environmental exposures may potentiate the development of SVD and interact with normal aging to impact cognitive function and require further study. Advances in technology, in the analysis of genetic and epigenetic data, neuroimaging such as magnetic resonance imaging, and new biomarkers will help to clarify the complex factors leading to SVD and the expression of VCI.
Objective: Given the limited effectiveness of pharmacological treatments, non-pharmacological interventions to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD) have gained attention in recent years. The aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of anodal tDCS (AtDCS) combined with memory training on face-name associations in an AD patient sample. Methods: Thirty six AD patients were randomly assigned to one of three study groups: Group 1, AtDCS plus individualized computerized memory training; Group 2, placebo tDCS plus individualized computerized memory training; Group 3, AtDCS plus motor training. Results: A general improvement in performance was observed after 2 weeks of memory training. Both the anodal tDCS plus individualized computerized memory training and the placebo tDCS plus individualized computerized memory training groups had significantly improved performances at 2 weeks compared with the AtDCS plus motor training group. Conclusion: Our findings suggest a beneficial effect of individualized memory rehabilitation in AD patients.
Background: Deposition of cortical amyloid beta (A) is a correlate of aging and a risk factor for Alzheimer disease (AD). While several higher order cognitive processes involve functional interactions between cortex and cerebellum, this study aims to investigate effects of cortical A deposition on coupling within the cerebro-cerebellar system. Methods: We included 15 healthy elderly subjects with normal cognitive performance as assessed by neuropsychological testing. Cortical A was quantified using (11)carbon-labeled Pittsburgh compound B positron-emission-tomography late frame signals. Volumes of brain structures were assessed by applying an automated parcelation algorithm to three dimensional magnetization-prepared rapid gradient-echo T1-weighted images. Basal functional network activity within the cerebro-cerebellar system was assessed using blood-oxygen-level dependent resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging at the high field strength of 7T for measuring coupling between cerebellar seeds and cerebral gray matter. A bivariate regression approach was applied for identification of brain regions with significant effects of individual cortical A load on coupling. Results: Consistent with earlier reports, a significant degree of positive and negative coupling could be observed between cerebellar seeds and cerebral voxels. Significant positive effects of cortical A load on cerebro-cerebellar coupling resulted for cerebral brain regions located in inferior temporal lobe, prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, and thalamus. Conclusion: Our findings indicate that brain amyloidosis in cognitively normal elderly subjects is associated with decreased network efficiency within the cerebro-cerebellar system. While the identified cerebral regions are consistent with established patterns of increased sensitivity for A-associated neurodegeneration, additional studies are needed to elucidate the relationship between dysfunction of the cerebro-cerebellar system and risk for AD.
Advancing age affects both cognitive performance and functional brain activity and interpretation of these effects has led to a variety of conceptual research models without always explicitly linking the two effects. However, to best understand the multifaceted effects of advancing age, age differences in functional brain activity need to be explicitly tied to the cognitive task performance. This work hypothesized that age-related differences in task performance are partially explained by age-related differences in functional brain activity and formally tested these causal relationships. Functional MRI data was from groups of young and old adults engaged in an executive task-switching experiment. Analyses were voxel-wise testing of moderated-mediation and simple mediation statistical path models to determine whether age group, brain activity and their interaction explained task performance in regions demonstrating an effect of age group. Results identified brain regions whose age-related differences in functional brain activity significantly explained age-related differences in task performance. In all identified locations, significant moderated-mediation relationships resulted from increasing brain activity predicting worse (slower) task performance in older but not younger adults. Findings suggest that advancing age links task performance to the level of brain activity. The overall message of this work is that in order to understand the role of functional brain activity on cognitive performance, analysis methods should respect theoretical relationships. Namely, that age affects brain activity and brain activity is related to task performance.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular pathology may interact with neurodegeneration and thus aggravate cognitive decline. As the relationship between these two processes is poorly understood, research has been increasingly focused on understanding the link between cerebrovascular alterations and AD. This has at last been spurred by the engineering of transgenic animals, which display pathological features of AD and develop cerebral amyloid angiopathy to various degrees. Transgenic models are versatile for investigating the role of amyloid deposition and vascular dysfunction, and for evaluating novel therapeutic concepts. In addition, research has benefited from the development of novel imaging techniques, which are capable of characterizing vascular pathology in vivo. They provide vascular structural read-outs and have the ability to assess the functional consequences of vascular dysfunction as well as to visualize and monitor the molecular processes underlying these pathological alterations. This article focusses on recent in vivo small animal imaging studies addressing vascular aspects related to AD. With the technical advances of imaging modalities such as magnetic resonance, nuclear and microscopic imaging, molecular, functional and structural information related to vascular pathology can now be visualized in vivo in small rodents. Imaging vascular and parenchymal amyloid- (A) deposition as well as A transport pathways have been shown to be useful to characterize their dynamics and to elucidate their role in the development of cerebral amyloid angiopathy and AD. Structural and functional imaging read-outs have been employed to describe the deleterious affects of A on vessel morphology, hemodynamics and vascular integrity. More recent imaging studies have also addressed how inflammatory processes partake in the pathogenesis of the disease. Moreover, imaging can be pivotal in the search for novel therapies targeting the vasculature.
For more than two decades, there have been extensive studies of experience-based neural plasticity exploring effective applications of brain plasticity for cognitive and motor development. Research suggests that human brains continuously undergo structural reorganization and functional changes in response to stimulations or training. From a developmental point of view, the assumption of lifespan brain plasticity has been extended to older adults in terms of the benefits of cognitive training and physical therapy. To summarize recent developments, first, we introduce the concept of neural plasticity from a developmental perspective. Secondly, we note that motor learning often refers to deliberate practice and the resulting performance enhancement and adaptability. We discuss the close interplay between neural plasticity, motor learning and cognitive aging. Thirdly, we review research on motor skill acquisition in older adults with, and without, impairments relative to aging-related cognitive decline. Finally, to enhance future research and application, we highlight the implications of neural plasticity in skills learning and cognitive rehabilitation for the aging population.

IN THIS STUDY WE EVALUATED RELIABILITY AND VALIDITY OF THE AUTOMATIC COGNITIVE ASSESSMENT DELIVERY (ACAD): a short computerized battery composed by memory and attention tests, delivered online, and designed primarily for the elderly. Reliability was examined with a test-retest design and validity was assessed by means of comparison with standard neuropsychological tests. Older (N = 32) and young adult participants (N = 21) were involved. We found that the ACAD is free from any practice effect. Test-retest reliability was confirmed via significant correlations and high percentage agreements between the scores of three repeated assessments. ACAD scores were lower for older than for young adult participants and correlated significantly with the standardized measures of memory and attention. Results demonstrate that the ACAD battery provides a reliable and valid measure of both immediate and delayed recognition memory and sustained attention, and may be useful for convenient and efficient cognitive assessment and monitoring in older adults.
Old age could impair memory by disrupting learning strategies used by younger individuals. We tested this possibility by manipulating the ability to use visual-exploration strategies during learning. Subjects controlled visual exploration during active learning, thus permitting the use of strategies, whereas strategies were limited during passive learning via predetermined exploration patterns. Performance on tests of object recognition and object-location recall was matched for younger and older subjects for objects studied passively, when learning strategies were restricted. Active learning improved object recognition similarly for younger and older subjects. However, active learning improved object-location recall for younger subjects, but not older subjects. Exploration patterns were used to identify a learning strategy involving repeat viewing. Older subjects used this strategy less frequently and it provided less memory benefit compared to younger subjects. In previous experiments, we linked hippocampal-prefrontal co-activation to improvements in object-location recall from active learning and to the exploration strategy. Collectively, these findings suggest that age-related memory problems result partly from impaired strategies during learning, potentially due to reduced hippocampal-prefrontal co-engagement.
Disrupted metal homeostasis is a consistent feature of neurodegenerative disease in humans and is recapitulated in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and neuronal ceriod lipofuscinosis. While the definitive pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease in humans remains to be fully elucidated, disease-like symptoms in the mouse models are all driven by the presence or over-expression of a putative pathogenic protein, indicating an in vivo relationship between expression of these proteins, disrupted metal homeostasis and the symptoms of neuronal failure. Recently it was established that mutant TAR DNA binding protein-43 (TDP-43) is associated with the development of frontotemporal lobar degeneration and ALS. Subsequent development of transgenic mice that express human TDP-43 carrying the disease-causing A315T mutation has provided new opportunity to study the underlying mechanisms of TDP-43-related neurodegenerative disease. We assessed the cognitive and locomotive phenotype of TDP-43 (A315T) mice and their wild-type littermates and also assessed bulk metal content of brain and spinal cord tissues. Metal levels in the brain were not affected by the expression of mutant TDP-43, but zinc, copper, and manganese levels were all increased in the spinal cords of TDP-43 (A315T) mice when compared to wild-type littermates. Performance of the TDP-43 (A315T) mice in the Y-maze test for cognitive function was not significantly different to wild-type mice. By contrast, performance of the TDP-43 (A315T) in the rotarod test for locomotive function was consistently worse than wild-type mice. These preliminary in vivo data are the first to show that expression of a disease-causing form of TDP-43 is sufficient to disrupt metal ion homeostasis in the central nervous system. Disrupted metal ion homeostasis in the spinal cord but not the brain may explain why the TDP-43 (A315T) mice show symptoms of locomotive decline and not cognitive decline.
It is now established that vitamin A and its derivatives, retinoic acid (RA), are required for cognitive functions in adulthood. RA hyposignaling and hyperactivity of glucocorticoid (GC) pathway appear concomitantly during aging and would contribute to the deterioration of hippocampal synaptic plasticity and functions. Furthermore, recent data have evidenced counteracting effects of retinoids on GC signaling pathway. In the present study, we addressed the following issue: whether the stimulation of RA pathway could modulate intrahippocampal corticosterone (CORT) levels in middle-aged mice and thereby impact on hippocampal plasticity and cognitive functions. We firstly investigated the effects of vitamin A supplementation and RA treatment in middle-aged mice, on contextual serial discrimination task, a paradigm which allows the detection of early signs of age-related hippocampal-dependent memory dysfunction. We then measured intrahippocampal CORT concentrations by microdialysis before and after a novelty-induced stress. Our results show that both RA treatment and vitamin A supplementation improve &quot;episodic-like&quot; memory in middle-aged mice but RA treatment appears to be more efficient. Moreover, we show that the beneficial effect of RA on memory is associated to an increase in hippocampal PSD-95 expression. In addition, intrahippocampal CORT levels are reduced after novelty-induced stress in RA-treated animals. This effect cannot be related to a modulation of hippocampal 11-HSD1 expression. Interestingly, RA treatment induces a modulation of RA receptors RAR and RAR expression in middle-aged mice, a finding which has been correlated with the amplitude of intrahippocampal CORT levels after novelty-induced stress. Taken together, our results suggest that the preventive action of RA treatment on age-related memory deficits in middle-aged mice could be, at least in part, due to an inhibitory effect of retinoids on GC activity.
Objective: Diabetes is a risk factor for dementia and mild cognitive impairment. The aim of this study was to investigate whether some features of resting-state EEG (rsEEG) could be applied as a biomarker to distinguish the subjects with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) from normal cognitive function in type 2 diabetes. Materials and Methods: In this study, 28 patients with type 2 diabetes (16 aMCI patients and 12 controls) were investigated. Recording of the rsEEG series and neuropsychological assessments were performed. The rsEEG signal was first decomposed into delta, theta, alpha, beta, gamma frequency bands. The relative power of each given band/sum of power and the coherence of waves from different brain areas were calculated. The extracted features from rsEEG and neuropsychological assessments were analyzed as well. Results: The main findings of this study were that: (1) compared with the control group, the ratios of power in theta band [P(theta)] vs. power in alpha band [P(alpha)] [P(theta)/P(alpha)] in the frontal region and left temporal region were significantly higher for aMCI, and (2) for aMCI, the alpha coherences in posterior, fronto-right temporal, fronto-posterior, right temporo-posterior were decreased; the theta coherences in left central-right central (LC-RC) and left posterior-right posterior (LP-RP) regions were also decreased; but the delta coherences in left temporal-right temporal (LT-RT) region were increased. Conclusion: The proposed indexes from rsEEG recordings could be employed to track cognitive function of diabetic patients and also to help in the diagnosis of those who develop aMCI.
Healthy aging is accompanied by working memory-related functional cerebral changes. Depending on performance accuracy and the level of working memory demands, older adults show task-related patterns of either increased or decreased activation compared to younger adults. Controversies remain concerning the interpretation of these changes and whether they already manifest in earlier decades of life. To address these issues, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to examine brain activation during spatial working memory retrieval in 45 healthy individuals between 20 and 68 years of age. Participants performed a modified version of the Corsi Block-Tapping test (CBT). The CBT requires the storage and subsequent reproduction of spatial target sequences and allows modulating working memory load by a variation of sequence length. Results revealed that activation intensity at the lowest CBT load level increased with increasing age and positively correlated with the number of errors. At higher CBT load levels, activation intensity decreased with increasing age together with a disproportional accuracy decline on the behavioral level. Moreover, results suggests that younger individuals showed higher activation intensity at high CBT load than at low CBT load switching to the opposite pattern at an age of about 40 years. Consistent with the assumptions of the Compensation-Related Utilization of Neural Circuits Hypothesis (CRUNCH), the present results reveal specific age-related alterations in left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activation in response to increasing task load. Specifically, the results point toward increasing neural inefficiency with age at low task load and a progressive limitation of resources with age at higher task load. The present findings argue for an increasing functional cerebral dysfunction over a time span of 50 years that may partly be compensated on the behavioral level until a resource ceiling is approached.

A hallmark of the age-related neural reorganization is that old versus young adults execute typical motor tasks by a more diffuse neural activation pattern including stronger ipsilateral activation during unilateral tasks. Whether such changes in neural activation are present already at middle age and affect bimanual interactions is unknown. We compared the amount of associated activity, i.e., muscle activity and force produced by the non-task hand and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) produced by magnetic brain stimulation between young (mean 24years, n=10) and middle-aged (mean 50years, n=10) subjects during brief unilateral (seven levels of % maximal voluntary contractions, MVCs) and bilateral contractions (47 levels of % MVC combinations), and during a 120-s-long MVC of sustained unilateral index finger abduction. During the force production, the excitability of the ipsilateral (iM1) or contralateral primary motor cortex (cM1) was assessed. The associated activity in the &quot;resting&quot; hand was ~2-fold higher in middle-aged (28% of MVC) versus young adults (11% of MVC) during brief unilateral MVCs. After controlling for the background muscle activity, MEPs in iM1 were similar in the two groups during brief unilateral contractions. Only at low (bilateral) forces, MEPs evoked in cM1 were 30% higher in the middle-aged versus young adults. At the start of the sustained contraction, the associated activity was higher in the middle-aged versus young subjects and increased progressively in both groups (30 versus 15% MVC at 120s, respectively). MEPs were greater at the start of the sustained contraction in middle-aged subjects but increased further during the contraction only in young adults. Under these experimental conditions, the data provide evidence for the reorganization of neural control of unilateral force production as early as age 50. Future studies will determine if the altered neural control of such inter-manual interactions are of functional significance.
The spatial water maze is routinely used to investigate hippocampal-dependent spatial memory and the biological mechanisms that underlie variability in cognitive decline during aging. The utility of the task for repeated testing in order to examine the trajectory of cognitive decline and to prescreen animals prior to therapeutic interventions maybe limited due to carryover effects of repeated training. The current study examines the role of carryover effects, as well as the reliability of individual differences, in determining age-related impairment on episodic and reference memory versions of the water maze task. Results indicate that impaired acquisition of episodic spatial information emerges in middle-age and the propensity for impairment increases with advancing age. While learning was variable across animals, acquisition deficits for episodic information were reliable across training sessions in middle-age and aged rats. A significant impairment in the 24~h retention of episodic spatial information was observed in aged animals. When animals were trained to the same location (i.e., reference memory), an impairment was limited to the rate of acquisition in aged animals. However, with continued training, all aged animals were able to acquire a reference memory and no age differences were observed in the 24~h retention of a spatial reference memory. Together, the results point to a progressive impairment in episodic spatial memory with advancing age and suggest that tests of episodic spatial memory are reliable and more sensitive than reference memory for detecting cognitive decline.
Brain aging is characterized by global changes which are thought to underlie age-related cognitive decline. These include variations in brain activity and the progressive increase in the concentration of soluble amyloid- (A) oligomers, directly impairing synaptic function and plasticity even in the absence of any neurodegenerative disorder. Considering the high social impact of the decline in brain performance associated to aging, there is an urgent need to better understand how it can be prevented or contrasted. Lifestyle components, such as social interaction, motor exercise and cognitive activity, are thought to modulate brain physiology and its susceptibility to age-related pathologies. However, the precise functional and molecular factors that respond to environmental stimuli and might mediate their protective action again pathological aging still need to be clearly identified. To address this issue, we exploited environmental enrichment (EE), a reliable model for studying the effect of experience on the brain based on the enhancement of cognitive, social and motor experience, in aged wild-type mice. We analyzed the functional consequences of EE on aged brain physiology by performing in vivo local field potential (LFP) recordings with chronic implants. In addition, we also investigated changes induced by EE on molecular markers of neural plasticity and on the levels of soluble A oligomers. We report that EE induced profound changes in the activity of the primary visual and auditory cortices and in their functional interaction. At the molecular level, EE enhanced plasticity by an upward shift of the cortical excitation/inhibition balance. In addition, EE reduced brain A oligomers and increased synthesis of the A-degrading enzyme neprilysin. Our findings strengthen the potential of EE procedures as a non-invasive paradigm for counteracting brain aging processes.
Interval timing refers to the ability to perceive, estimate and discriminate durations in the range of seconds to minutes. Very little is currently known about the ontogeny of interval timing throughout development. On the other hand, even though the neural circuit sustaining interval timing is a matter of debate, the striatum has been suggested to be an important component of the system and its maturation occurs around the third post-natal (PN) week in rats. The global aim of the present study was to investigate interval timing abilities at an age for which striatum is not yet mature. We used odor fear conditioning, as it can be applied to very young animals. In odor fear conditioning, an odor is presented to the animal and a mild footshock is delivered after a fixed interval. Adult rats have been shown to learn the temporal relationships between the odor and the shock after a few associations. The first aim of the present study was to assess the activity of the striatum during odor fear conditioning using 2-Deoxyglucose autoradiography during development in rats. The data showed that although fear learning was displayed at all tested ages, activation of the striatum was observed in adults but not in juvenile animals. Next, we assessed the presence of evidence of interval timing in ages before and after the inclusion of the striatum into the fear conditioning circuit. We used an experimental setup allowing the simultaneous recording of freezing and respiration that have been demonstrated to be sensitive to interval timing in adult rats. This enabled the detection of duration-related temporal patterns for freezing and/or respiration curves in infants as young as 12 days PN during odor fear conditioning. This suggests that infants are able to encode time durations as well as and as quickly as adults while their striatum is not yet functional. Alternative networks possibly sustaining interval timing in infant rats are discussed.
Most of the deleterious effects of stress on memory retrieval are due to a dysfunction of the hippocampo-prefrontal cortex interplay. The role of the stress-induced regional corticosterone increase in such dysfunction remains however unclear, since there is no published study as yet dedicated to measuring corticosterone concentrations simultaneously in both the prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the hippocampus (dHPC) in relation with memory impairments. To that aim, we first showed in Experiment 1 that an acute stress (3 electric footschocks; 0.9 mA each) delivered before memory testing reversed the memory retrieval pattern (MRP) in a serial discrimination task in which mice learned two successive discriminations. More precisely, whereas non-stressed animals remembered accurately the first learned discrimination and not the second one, stressed mice remembered more accurately the second discrimination but not the first one. We demonstrated that local inactivation of dHPC or mPFC with the anesthetic lidocaine recruited the dHPC activity in non-stress conditions whereas the stress-induced MRP inversion recruited the mPFC activity. In a second experiment, we showed that acute stress induced a very similar time-course evolution of corticosterone rises within both the mPFC and dHPC. In a 3rd experiment, we found however that in situ injections of corticosterone either within the mPFC or the dHPC before memory testing favored the emergence of the mPFC-dependent MRP but blocked the emergence of the dHPC-dependent one. Overall, our study evidences that the simultaneous increase of corticosterone after stress in both areas induces a shift from dHPC (non-stress condition) to mPFC-dependent MRP and that corticosterone is critically involved in mediating the deleterious effects of stress on cognitive functions involving the mPFC-HPC interplay.
We investigated whether the differences in perceptual awareness for stimuli at the threshold of awareness can arise from different global brain states before stimulus onset indexed by the EEG microstate. We used a metacontrast backward masking paradigm in which subjects had to discriminate between two weak stimuli and obtained measures of accuracy and awareness while their EEG was recorded from 256 channels. Comparing targets that were correctly identified with and without awareness allowed us to contrast differences in awareness while keeping performance constant for identical physical stimuli. Two distinct pre-stimulus scalp potential fields (microstate maps) dissociated correct identification with and without awareness, and their estimated intracranial generators were stronger in primary visual cortex before correct identification without awareness. This difference in activity cannot be explained by differences in alpha power or phase which were less reliably linked with differential pre-stimulus activation of primary visual cortex. Our results shed a new light on the function of pre-stimulus activity in early visual cortex in visual awareness and emphasize the importance of trial-by-trials analysis of the spatial configuration of the scalp potential field identified with multichannel EEG.

The ability to reappraise the emotional impact of events is related to long-term mental health. Self-focused reappraisal (REAPPself), i.e., reducing the personal relevance of the negative events, has been previously associated with neural activity in regions near right medial prefrontal cortex, but rarely investigated among brain-damaged individuals. Thus, we aimed to examine the REAPPself ability of brain-damaged patients and healthy controls considering structural atrophies and gray matter intensities, respectively. Twenty patients with well-defined cortex lesions due to an acquired circumscribed tumor or cyst and 23 healthy controls performed a REAPPself task, in which they had to either observe negative stimuli or decrease emotional responding by REAPPself. Next, they rated the impact of negative arousal and valence. REAPPself ability scores were calculated by subtracting the negative picture ratings after applying REAPPself from the ratings of the observing condition. The scores of the patients were included in a voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM) analysis to identify deficit related areas (ROI). Then, a ROI group-wise comparison was performed. Additionally, a whole-brain voxel-based-morphometry (VBM) analysis was run, in which healthy participant's REAPPself ability scores were correlated with gray matter intensities. Results showed that (1) regions in the right superior frontal gyrus (SFG), comprising the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (BA9) and the right dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (BA32), were associated with patient's impaired down-regulation of arousal, (2) a lesion in the depicted ROI occasioned significant REAPPself impairments, (3) REAPPself ability of controls was linked with increased gray matter intensities in the ROI regions. Our findings show for the first time that the neural integrity and the structural volume of right SFG regions (BA9/32) might be indispensable for REAPPself. Implications for neurofeedback research are discussed.
Noradrenergic activation of the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) is well known to enhance the consolidation of long-term memory of highly emotionally arousing training experiences. The present study investigated whether such noradrenergic activation of the BLA also influences the consolidation of object-in-context recognition memory, a low-arousing training task assessing episodic-like memory. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to two identical objects in one context for either 3 or 10 min, immediately followed by exposure to two other identical objects in a distinctly different context. Immediately after the training they received bilateral intra-BLA infusions of norepinephrine (0.3, 1.0, or 3.0  g) or the -adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol (0.1, 0.3, or 1.0  g). On the 24-h retention test, rats were placed back into one of the training contexts with one copy of each of the two training objects. Thus, although both objects were familiar, one of the objects had not previously been encountered in this particular test context. Hence, if the animal generated a long-term memory for the association between an object and its context, it would spend significantly more time exploring the object that was not previously experienced in this context. Saline-infused control rats exhibited poor 24-h retention when given 3 min of training and good retention when given 10 min of training. Norepinephrine administered after 3 min of object-in-context training induced a dose-dependent memory enhancement, whereas propranolol administered after 10 min of training produced memory impairment. These findings provide evidence that post-training noradrenergic activation of the BLA also enhances the consolidation of memory of object-in-context recognition training, enabling accuracy of episodic-like memories.
Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) can be applied to study associative learning and its relevant underpinning molecular mechanisms in discrete brain regions. The present study examined, by immunohistochemistry and immunocytochemistry, the effects of acquisition and expression of lithium-induced CTA on activated Extracellular signal Regulated Kinase (p-ERK) in the prefrontal cortex (PFCx) and nucleus accumbens (Acb) of male Sprague-Dawley rats. The study also examined, by immunoblotting, whether acquisition and expression of lithium-induced CTA resulted in modified levels of phosphorylation of glutamate receptor subunits (NR1 and GluR1) and Thr(34)- and Thr(75-Dopamine-and-cAMP-Regulated) PhosphoProtein (DARPP-32). CTA acquisition was associated with an increase of p-ERK-positive neurons and phosphorylated NR1 receptor subunit (p-NR1) in the PFCx, whereas p-GluR1, p-Thr(34)- and p-Thr(75)-DARPP-32 levels were not changed in this brain region. CTA expression increased the number of p-ERK-positive neurons in the shell (AcbSh) and core (AcbC) but left unmodified p-NR1, p-GluR1, p-Thr(34)- and p-Thr(75-DARPP-32) levels. Furthermore, post-embedding immunogold quantitative analysis in AcbSh revealed that CTA expression significantly increased nuclear p-ERK immunostaining as well as p-ERK-labeled axo-spinous contacts. Overall, these results indicate that ERK and NR1, but not GluR1 and DARPP-32, are differentially phosphorylated as a consequence of acquisition and expression of aversive associative learning. Moreover, these results confirm that CTA represents an useful approach to study the molecular basis of associative learning in rats and suggest the involvement of ERK cascade in learning-associated synaptic plasticity.
A large variety of behaviors that are essential for animal survival depend on the perception and processing of surrounding smells present in the natural environment. In particular, food-search behavior, which is conditioned by hunger, is directly driven by the perception of odors associated with food, and feeding status modulates olfactory sensitivity. The orexinergic hypothalamic peptide orexin A (OXA), one of the central and peripheral hormones that triggers food intake, has been shown to increase olfactory sensitivity in various experimental conditions including the conditioned odor aversion learning paradigm (COA). COA is an associative task that corresponds to the association between an olfactory conditioned stimulus (CS) and a delayed gastric malaise. Previous studies have shown that this association is formed only if the delay separating the CS presentation from the malaise is short, suggesting that the memory trace of the odor is relatively unstable. To test the selectivity of the OXA system in olfactory sensitivity, a recent study compared the effects of fasting and of central infusion of OXA during the acquisition of COA. Results showed that the increased olfactory sensitivity induced by fasting and by OXA infusion was accompanied by enhanced COA learning performances. In reference to the duration of action of OXA, the present work details the results obtained during the successive COA extinction tests and suggests a hypothesis concerning the role of the OXA component of fasting on the memory processes underlying CS-malaise association during COA. Moreover, referring to previous data in the literature we suggest a functional circuit model where fasting modulates olfactory memory processes through direct and/or indirect activation of particular OXA brain targets including the olfactory bulb, the locus coeruleus (LC) and the amygdala.

Impulsivity is a core personality trait forming part of normal behavior and contributing to adaptive functioning. However, in typically developing children, altered patterns of impulsivity constitute a risk factor for the development of behavioral problems. Since both pathological and non-pathological states are commonly characterized by continuous transitions, we used a correlative approach to investigate the potential link between personality and brain dynamics. We related brain functional connectivity of typically developing children, measured with magnetic resonance imaging at rest, with their impulsivity scores obtained from a questionnaire completed by their parents. We first looked for areas within the default mode network (DMN) whose functional connectivity might be modulated by trait impulsivity. Then, we calculated the functional connectivity among these regions and the rest of the brain in order to assess if impulsivity trait altered their relationships. We found two DMN clusters located at the posterior cingulate cortex and the right angular gyrus which were negatively correlated with impulsivity scores. The whole-brain correlation analysis revealed the classic network of correlating and anti-correlating areas with respect to the DMN. The impulsivity trait modulated such pattern showing that the canonical anti-phasic relation between DMN and action-related network was reduced in high impulsive children. These results represent the first evidence that the impulsivity, measured as personality trait assessed through parents' report, exerts a modulatory influence over the functional connectivity of resting state brain networks in typically developing children. The present study goes further to connect developmental approaches, mainly based on data collected through the use of questionnaires, and behavioral neuroscience, interested in how differences in brain structure and functions reflect in differences in behavior.
Midbrain dopamine neurons are implicated in motivation and learning. However, it is unclear how phasic excitation of dopamine neurons, which is implicated in learning, is involved in motivation. Here we used a self-stimulation procedure to examine how mice seek for optogenetically-induced phasic excitation of dopamine neurons, with an emphasis on the temporal dimension. TH-Cre transgenic mice received adeno-associated viral vectors encoding channelrhodopsin-2 into the ventral tegmental area, resulting in selective expression of the opsin in dopamine neurons. These mice were trained to press on a lever for photo-pulse trains that phasically excited dopamine neurons. They learned to self-stimulate in a fast, constant manner, and rapidly reduced pressing during extinction. We first determined effective parameters of photo-pulse trains in self-stimulation. Lever-press rates changed as a function of the manipulation of pulse number, duration, intensity, and frequency. We then examined effects of interval and ratio schedules of reinforcement on photo-pulse train reinforcement, which was contrasted with food reinforcement. Reinforcement with food inhibited lever pressing for a few seconds, after which pressing was robustly regulated in a goal-directed manner. In contrast, phasic excitation of dopamine neurons robustly potentiated the initiation of lever pressing; however, this effect did not last more than 1 s and quickly diminished. Indeed, response rates markedly decreased when lever pressing was reinforced with inter-reinforcement interval schedules of 3 or 10 s or ratio schedules requiring multiple responses per reinforcement. Thus, phasic excitation of dopamine neurons briefly potentiates the initiation of approach behavior with apparent lack of long-term motivational regulation.
The abilities to either flexibly adjust behavior according to changing demands (cognitive flexibility) or to maintain it in the face of potential distractors (cognitive stability) are critical for adaptive behavior in many situations. Recently, a novel human paradigm has found individual differences of cognitive flexibility and stability to be related to common prefrontal networks. The aims of the present study were, first, to translate this paradigm from humans to mice and, second, to test conceptual predictions of a computational model of prefrontal working memory mechanisms, the Dual State Theory, which assumes an antagonistic relation between cognitive flexibility and stability. Mice were trained in a touchscreen-paradigm to discriminate visual cues. The task involved &quot;ongoing&quot; and cued &quot;switch&quot; trials. In addition distractor cues were interspersed to test the ability to resist distraction, and an ambiguous condition assessed the spontaneous switching between two possible responses without explicit cues. While response times did not differ substantially between conditions, error rates (ER) increased from the &quot;ongoing&quot; baseline condition to the most complex condition, where subjects were required to switch between two responses in the presence of a distracting cue. Importantly, subjects switching more often spontaneously were found to be more distractible by task irrelevant cues, but also more flexible in situations, where switching was required. These results support a dichotomy of cognitive flexibility and stability as predicted by the Dual State Theory. Furthermore, they replicate critical aspects of the human paradigm, which indicates the translational potential of the testing procedure and supports the use of touchscreen procedures in preclinical animal research.
Music is among all cultures an important part of the live of most people. Music has psychological benefits and may generate strong emotional and physiological responses. Recently, neuroscientists have discovered that music influences the reward circuit of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), even when no explicit reward is present. In this clinical case study, we describe a 60-year old patient who developed a sudden and distinct musical preference for Johnny Cash following deep brain stimulation (DBS) targeted at the NAcc. This case report substantiates the assumption that the NAcc is involved in musical preference, based on the observation of direct stimulation of the accumbens with DBS. It also shows that accumbens DBS can change musical preference without habituation of its rewarding properties.

A growing body of evidence suggests that sniffing is not only the mode of delivery for odorant molecules but also contributes to olfactory perception. However, the precise role of sniffing variations remains unknown. The zonation hypothesis suggests that animals use sniffing variations to optimize the deposition of odorant molecules on the most receptive areas of the olfactory epithelium (OE). Sniffing would thus depend on the physicochemical properties of odorants, particularly their sorption. Rojas-Lbano and Kay (2012) tested this hypothesis and showed that rats used different sniff strategies when they had to target a high-sorption (HS) molecule or a low-sorption (LS) molecule in a binary mixture. Which sniffing strategy is used by rats when they are confronted to discrimination between two similarly sorbent odorants remains unanswered. Particularly, is sniffing adjusted independently for each odorant according to its sorption properties (analytical processing), or is sniffing adjusted based on the pairing context (synthetic processing)? We tested these hypotheses on rats performing a two-alternative choice discrimination of odorants with similar sorption properties. We recorded sniffing in a non-invasive manner using whole-body plethysmography during the behavioral task. We found that sniffing variations were not only a matter of odorant sorption properties and that the same odorant was sniffed differently depending on the odor pair in which it was presented. These results suggest that rather than being adjusted analytically, sniffing is instead adjusted synthetically and depends on the pair of odorants presented during the discrimination task. Our results show that sniffing is a specific sensorimotor act that depends on complex synthetic processes.
The development of excessive fear and/or stress responses to environmental cues such as contexts associated with a traumatic event is a hallmark of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The basolateral amygdala (BLA) has been implicated as a key structure mediating contextual fear conditioning. In addition, the hippocampus has an integral role in the encoding and processing of contexts associated with strong, salient stimuli such as fear. Given that both the BLA and hippocampus play an important role in the regulation of contextual fear conditioning, examining the functional connectivity between these two structures may elucidate a role for this pathway in the development of PTSD. Here, we used optogenetic strategies to demonstrate that the BLA sends a strong glutamatergic projection to the hippocampal formation through the entorhinal cortex (EC). Next, we photoinhibited glutamatergic fibers from the BLA terminating in the EC during the acquisition or expression of contextual fear conditioning. In mice that received optical inhibition of the BLA-to-EC pathway during the acquisition session, we observed a significant decrease in freezing behavior in a context re-exposure session. In contrast, we observed no differences in freezing behavior in mice that were only photoinhibited during the context re-exposure session. These data demonstrate an important role for the BLA-to-EC glutamatergic pathway in the acquisition of contextual fear conditioning.

Sensory neural activity is highly context dependent and shaped by experience and expectation. In the olfactory bulb (OB), the first cerebral relay of olfactory processing, responses to odorants are shaped by previous experiences including contextual information thanks to strong feedback connections. In the present experiment, mice were conditioned to associate an odorant with a visual context and were then exposed to the visual context alone. We found that the visual context alone elicited exploration of the odor port similar to that elicited by the stimulus when it was initially presented. In the OB, the visual context alone elicited a neural activation pattern, assessed by mapping the expression of the immediate early gene zif268 (egr-1) that was highly similar to that evoked by the conditioned odorant, but not other odorants. This OB activation was processed by olfactory network as it was transmitted to the piriform cortex. Interestingly, a novel context abolished neural and behavioral responses. In addition, the neural representation in response to the context was dependent on top-down inputs, suggesting that context-dependent representation is initiated in cortex. Modeling of the experimental data suggests that odor representations are stored in cortical networks, reactivated by the context and activate bulbar representations. Activation of the OB and the associated behavioral response in the absence of physical stimulus showed that mice are capable of internal representations of sensory stimuli. The similarity of activation patterns induced by imaged and the corresponding physical stimulus, triggered only by the relevant context provides evidence for an odor-specific internal representation.
High trait anxiety is a risk factor for the development of anxiety disorders. Like the disorders themselves high trait anxiety has marked phenotypic variation at the level of symptomatology and neural circuits, suggesting that there may be different symptoms and distinct neural circuits associated with risk for these disorders. To address these issues, it is essential to develop reliable animal models of trait anxiety in a non-human primate whose brain bears structural and functional similarity to humans. The present study investigated individual variation in responsivity to fearful and anxiety provoking stimuli in the common marmoset monkey. Seven out of 27 animals failed to display discriminative, conditioned cardiovascular and behavioral responses on an auditory fear discrimination task, similar to that seen in high anxious humans and rodents. Their heightened emotionality to a rubber snake was consistent with the hypothesis that they were high in trait-like anxiety. Evidence for phenotypic variation in the high anxiety group was provided by the finding that discrimination failure was predicted early in conditioning by either hyper-vigilant scanning to the cues or a reduction in blood pressure to the context, i.e., test apparatus. Given that high trait anxiety in humans can be associated with altered prefrontal cognitive functioning and previously we implicated the marmoset anterior orbitofrontal (antOFC) and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) in negative emotion regulation, we also tested the marmosets on two tests of cognitive flexibility differentially dependent on these two regions. While the high anxious group did not differ overall in their perseverative performance, the two distinct phenotypes were differentially correlated with reduced perseverative responding on the OFC- and vlPFC-dependent flexibility tests. Together, this study provides a new model of trait anxiety in marmosets amenable to analysis of phenotypic variation and neural circuitry.

CD157, known as bone marrow stromal cell antigen-1, is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored ADP-ribosyl cyclase that supports the survival and function of B-lymphocytes and hematopoietic or intestinal stem cells. Although CD157/Bst1 is a risk locus in Parkinson's disease (PD), little is known about the function of CD157 in the nervous system and contribution to PD progression. Here, we show that no apparent motor dysfunction was observed in young knockout (CD157 (-/-)) male mice under less aging-related effects on behaviors. CD157 (-/-) mice exhibited anxiety-related and depression-like behaviors compared with wild-type mice. These behaviors were rescued through treatment with anti-psychiatric drugs and oxytocin. CD157 was weakly expressed in the amygdala and c-Fos immunoreactivity in the amygdala was less evident in CD157 (-/-) mice than in wild-type mice. These results demonstrate for the first time that CD157 plays a role as a neuro-regulator and suggest a potential role in pre-motor symptoms in PD.
Consolidation processes, involving synaptic and systems level changes, are suggested to stabilize memories once they are formed. At the synaptic level, dendritic structural changes are associated with long-term memory storage. At the systems level, memory storage dynamics between the hippocampus and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) may be influenced by the number of sequentially encoded memories. The present experiment utilized Golgi-Cox staining and neuron reconstruction to examine recent and remote structural changes in the hippocampus and ACC following training on three different behavioral procedures. Rats were trained on one hippocampal-dependent task only (a water maze task), two hippocampal-dependent tasks (a water maze task followed by a radial arm maze task), or one hippocampal-dependent and one non-hippocampal-dependent task (a water maze task followed by an operant conditioning task). Rats were euthanized recently or remotely. Brains underwent Golgi-Cox processing and neurons were reconstructed using Neurolucida software (MicroBrightField, Williston, VT, USA). Rats trained on two hippocampal-dependent tasks displayed increased dendritic complexity compared to control rats, in neurons examined in both the ACC and hippocampus at recent and remote time points. Importantly, this behavioral group showed consistent, significant structural differences in the ACC compared to the control group at the recent time point. These findings suggest that taxing the demand placed upon the hippocampus, by training rats on two hippocampal-dependent tasks, engages synaptic and systems consolidation processes in the ACC at an accelerated rate for recent and remote storage of spatial memories.
Corticosteroid hormones, released after stress, are known to influence neuronal activity and produce a wide range of effects upon the brain. They affect cognitive tasks including decision-making. Recently it was shown that systemic injections of corticosterone (CORT) disrupt reward-based decision-making in rats when tested in a rat model of the Iowa Gambling Task (rIGT), i.e., rats do not learn across trial blocks to avoid the long-term disadvantageous option. This effect was associated with a change in neuronal activity in prefrontal brain areas, i.e., the infralimbic (IL), lateral orbitofrontal (lOFC) and insular cortex, as assessed by changes in c-Fos expression. Here, we studied whether injections of CORT directly into the IL and lOFC lead to similar changes in decision-making. As in our earlier study, CORT was injected during the final 3 days of the behavioral paradigm, 25 min prior to behavioral testing. Infusions of vehicle into the IL led to a decreased number of visits to the disadvantageous arm across trial blocks, while infusion with CORT did not. Infusions into the lOFC did not lead to differences in the number of visits to the disadvantageous arm between vehicle treated and CORT treated rats. However, compared to vehicle treated rats of the IL group, performance of vehicle treated rats of the lOFC group was impaired, possibly due to cannulation/infusion-related damage of the lOFC affecting decision-making. Overall, these results show that infusions with CORT into the IL are sufficient to disrupt decision-making performance, pointing to a critical role of the IL in corticosteroid effects on reward-based decision-making. The data do not directly support that the same holds true for infusions into the lOFC.
The rodent prelimbic cortex has been shown to play an important role in cognitive processing, and has been implicated in encoding many different parameters relevant to solving decision-making tasks. However, it is not known how the prelimbic cortex represents all these disparate variables, and if they are simultaneously represented when the task requires it. In order to investigate this question, we trained rats to run the Multiple-T Left Right Alternate (MT-LRA) task and recorded multi-unit ensembles from their prelimbic regions. Significant populations of cells in the prelimbic cortex represented the strategy controlling reward receipt on a given lap, whether the animal chose to go right or left on a given lap, and whether the animal made a correct decision or an error on a given lap. These populations overlapped in the cells recorded, with several cells demonstrating differential firing to all three variables. The spatial and strategic firing patterns of individual prelimbic cells were highly conserved across several days of running this task, indicating that each cell encoded the same information across days.
Accumulating evidence suggests that neuregulin 1 (NRG1) might be involved in the neurodevelopment, neural plasticity, GABAergic neurotransmission, and pathogenesis of schizophrenia. NRG1 is abundantly expressed in the hippocampus, and emerging studies have begun to reveal the link between NRG1 signaling and cognitive deficits in schizophrenic patients. Because the transmembrane domain of NRG1 is vital for both forward and reverse signaling cascades, new Nrg1-deficient mice that carry a truncation of the transmembrane domain of the Nrg1 gene were characterized and used in this study to test a NRG1 loss-of-function hypothesis for schizophrenia. Both male and female Nrg1 heterozygous mutant mice and their wild-type littermates were used in a series of 4 experiments to characterize the impact of Nrg1 on behavioral phenotypes and to determine the importance of Nrg1 in the regulation of hippocampal neuromorphology and local GABAergic interneurons. First, a comprehensive battery of behavioral tasks indicated that male Nrg1-deficient mice exhibited significant impairments in cognitive functions. Second, pharmacological challenges were conducted and revealed that Nrg1 haploinsufficiency altered GABAergic activity in males. Third, although no genotype-specific neuromorphological alterations were found in the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, significant reductions in the hippocampal expressions of GAD67 and parvalbumin were revealed in the Nrg1-deficient males. Fourth, chronic treatment with valproate rescued the observed behavioral deficits and hippocampal GAD67 reduction in Nrg1-deficient males. Collectively, these results indicate the potential therapeutic effect of valproate and the importance of Nrg1 in the regulation of cognitive functions and hippocampal GABAergic interneurons, especially in males.
Misophonia (hatred of sound) is a newly defined psychiatric condition in which ordinary human sounds, such as breathing and eating, trigger impulsive aggression. In the current study, we investigated if a dysfunction in the brain's early auditory processing system could be present in misophonia. We screened 20 patients with misophonia with the diagnostic criteria for misophonia, and 14 matched healthy controls without misophonia, and investigated any potential deficits in auditory processing of misophonia patients using auditory event-related potentials (ERPs) during an oddball task. Subjects watched a neutral silent movie while being presented a regular frequency of beep sounds in which oddball tones of 250 and 4000Hz were randomly embedded in a stream of repeated 1000Hz standard tones. We examined the P1, N1, and P2 components locked to the onset of the tones. For misophonia patients, the N1 peak evoked by the oddball tones had smaller mean peak amplitude than the control group. However, no significant differences were found in P1 and P2 components evoked by the oddball tones. There were no significant differences between the misophonia patients and their controls in any of the ERP components to the standard tones. The diminished N1 component to oddball tones in misophonia patients suggests an underlying neurobiological deficit in misophonia patients. This reduction might reflect a basic impairment in auditory processing in misophonia patients.
In a newly developed conceptual model of stressful social decision-making, the Stress-Alternatives Model (SAM; used for the 1st time in mice) elicits two types of response: escape or remain submissively. Daily (4d) aggressive social interaction in a neutral arena between a C57BL6/N test mouse and a larger, novel aggressive CD1 mouse, begin after an audible tone (conditioned stimulus; CS). Although escape holes (only large enough for smaller test animals) are available, and the aggressor is unremittingly antagonistic, only half of the mice tested utilize the possibility of escape. During training, for mice that choose to leave the arena and social interaction, latency to escape dramatically decreases over time; this is also true for control C57BL6/N mice which experienced no aggression. Therefore, the open field of the SAM apparatus is intrinsically anxiogenic. It also means that submission to the aggressor is chosen despite this anxiety and the high intensity of the aggressive attacks and defeat. While both groups that received aggression displayed stress responsiveness, corticosterone levels were significantly higher in animals that chose submissive coexistence. Although both escaping and non-escaping groups of animals experienced aggression and defeat, submissive animals also exhibited classic fear conditioning, freezing in response to the CS alone, while escaping animals did not. In the basolateral amygdala (BLA), gene expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was diminished, at the same time neuropeptide S (NPS) expression was significantly elevated, but only in submissive animals. This increase in submission-evoked NPS mRNA expression was greatest in the central amygdala (CeA), which coincided with decreased BDNF expression. Reduced expression of BDNF was only found in submissive animals that also exhibit elevated NPS expression, despite elevated corticosterone in all socially interacting animals. The results suggest an interwoven relationship, linked by social context, between amygdalar BDNF, NPS and plasma corticosterone.
Olfactory perception, and especially hedonic evaluation of odors, is highly flexible, but some mechanisms involved in this flexibility remain to be elucidated. In the present study we aimed at better understanding how repeated exposure to odors can affect their pleasantness. We tested the hypothesis of an affective habituation to the stimuli, namely a decrease of emotional intensity over repetitions. More specifically, we tested whether this effect is subject to inter-individual variability and whether it can also be observed at the olfactomotor level. Twenty-six participants took part in the experiment during which they had to smell two odorants, anise and chocolate, presented 20 times each. On each trial, sniff duration and volume were recorded and paired with ratings of odor pleasantness and intensity. For each smell, we distinguished between &quot;likers&quot; and &quot;dislikers,&quot; namely individuals giving positive and negative initial hedonic evaluations. Results showed a significant decrease in pleasantness with time when the odor was initially pleasant (&quot;likers&quot;), while unpleasantness remained stable or slightly decreased when the odor was initially unpleasant (&quot;dislikers&quot;). This deviation toward neutrality was interpreted as affective habituation. This effect was all the more robust as it was observed for both odors and corroborated by sniffing, an objective measurement of odor pleasantness. Affective habituation to odors can be interpreted as an adaptive response to stimuli that prove over time to be devoid of positive or negative outcome on the organism. This study contributes to a better understanding of how olfactory preferences are shaped through exposure, depending on the individual's own initial perception of the odor.

The development and application of diverse BAC transgenic rodent lines has enabled rapid progress for precise molecular targeting of genetically-defined cell types in the mammalian central nervous system. These transgenic tools have played a central role in the optogenetic revolution in neuroscience. Indeed, an overwhelming proportion of studies in this field have made use of BAC transgenic Cre driver lines to achieve targeted expression of optogenetic probes in the brain. In addition, several BAC transgenic mouse lines have been established for direct cell-type specific expression of Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2). While the benefits of these new tools largely outweigh any accompanying challenges, many available BAC transgenic lines may suffer from confounds due in part to increased gene dosage of one or more &quot;extra&quot; genes contained within the large BAC DNA sequences. Here we discuss this under-appreciated issue and propose strategies for developing the next generation of BAC transgenic lines that are devoid of extra genes. Furthermore, we provide evidence that these strategies are simple, reproducible, and do not disrupt the intended cell-type specific transgene expression patterns for several distinct BAC clones. These strategies may be widely implemented for improved BAC transgenesis across diverse disciplines.

The transition to motherhood involves CNS changes that modify sociability and affective state. However, these changes also put females at risk for post-partum depression and psychosis, which impairs parenting abilities and adversely affects children. Thus, changes in expression and interactions in a core subset of genes may be critical for emergence of a healthy maternal phenotype, but inappropriate changes of the same genes could put women at risk for post-partum disorders. This study evaluated microarray gene expression changes in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), a region implicated in both maternal behavior and psychiatric disorders. Post-partum mice were compared to virgin controls housed with females and isolated for identical durations. Using the Modular Single-set Enrichment Test (MSET), we found that the genetic landscape of maternal mPFC bears statistical similarity to gene databases associated with schizophrenia (5 of 5 sets) and bipolar disorder (BPD, 3 of 3 sets). In contrast to previous studies of maternal lateral septum (LS) and medial preoptic area (MPOA), enrichment of autism and depression-linked genes was not significant (2 of 9 sets, 0 of 4 sets). Among genes linked to multiple disorders were fatty acid binding protein 7 (Fabp7), glutamate metabotropic receptor 3 (Grm3), platelet derived growth factor, beta polypeptide (Pdgfrb), and nuclear receptor subfamily 1, group D, member 1 (Nr1d1). RT-qPCR confirmed these gene changes as well as FMS-like tyrosine kinase 1 (Flt1) and proenkephalin (Penk). Systems-level methods revealed involvement of developmental gene networks in establishing the maternal phenotype and indirectly suggested a role for numerous microRNAs and transcription factors in mediating expression changes. Together, this study suggests that a subset of genes involved in shaping the healthy maternal brain may also be dysregulated in mental health disorders and put females at risk for post-partum psychosis with aspects of schizophrenia and BPD.
Antiepileptic medications are the frontline treatment for seizure conditions. However, these medications are not without cognitive side effects. Previously, our laboratory reported learning deficits in phenytoin and carbamazepine-treated rats. In the experiment reported here, the effects of valproic acid (VPA) have been studied using the same instrumental training tasks. VPA-treated rats displayed a severe deficit in acquiring a tone-signaled avoidance response. This deficit was attenuated in animals that had prior training in an appetitive context. Thus, this deficit is specific to learning in an aversive context, and does not result from difficulties in transferring associations from an appetitive to aversive context. Learning transfer deficits were previously observed in rats treated with phenytoin, and to a lesser extent, carbamazepine. On the other hand, rats treated with VPA fail to suppress inappropriate responsiveness across aversive training whether they had undergone prior appetitive training or not.
Experiencing tactile facial stimulation while seeing synchronous stimuli on the face of another individual induces &quot;enfacement,&quot; i.e., the subjective illusory experience of ownership of the other's face (explicit measure) and the attribution of the others' facial features to one's own face (implicit measure). Here we expanded previous knowledge by investigating if the tendency to include the other into one's own representation is influenced by positive or negative interpersonal attitudes derived either from consolidated socio-cultural stereotypes or from newly acquired, short-term individual interactions with a specific person. To this aim, we tested in Caucasian white participants the enfacement with a white and a black confederate, before and after an experimental procedure inducing a positive or negative perception of each of them. The results show that the subjective experience of enfacement with in- and out-group others before and after the manipulation is similar. The bias in attributing other's facial features to one's own face after synchronous stroking was, instead, dependent on whether the other person was positively perceived, independently of his/her ethnicity. Thus, we show that realistic positive face-to-face interactions are more effective than consolidated racial biases in influencing the strength of self-attribution of another persons' facial features in the context of multisensory illusions. Results suggest that positive interpersonal interactions might powerfully change the plasticity of self-other representations.
Gambling disorder is characterized by persistent and recurrent maladaptive gambling behavior, which leads to clinically significant impairment or distress. The disorder is associated with dysfunctions in the dopamine system. The dopamine system codes reward anticipation and outcome evaluation. Reward anticipation refers to dopaminergic activation prior to reward, while outcome evaluation refers to dopaminergic activation after reward. This article reviews evidence of dopaminergic dysfunctions in reward anticipation and outcome evaluation in gambling disorder from two vantage points: a model of reward prediction and reward prediction error by Wolfram Schultz et al. and a model of &quot;wanting&quot; and &quot;liking&quot; by Terry E. Robinson and Kent C. Berridge. Both models offer important insights on the study of dopaminergic dysfunctions in addiction, and implications for the study of dopaminergic dysfunctions in gambling disorder are suggested.
Pathological gambling is a behavioral addiction characterized by a chronic failure to resist the urge to gamble. It shares many similarities with drug addiction. Glucocorticoid hormones including cortisol are thought to play a key role in the vulnerability to addictive behaviors, by acting on the mesolimbic reward pathway. Based on our previous report of an imbalanced sensitivity to monetary versus non-monetary incentives in the ventral striatum of pathological gamblers (PGs), we investigated whether this imbalance was mediated by individual differences in endogenous cortisol levels. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and examined the relationship between cortisol levels and the neural responses to monetary versus non-monetary cues, while PGs and healthy controls were engaged in an incentive delay task manipulating both monetary and erotic rewards. We found a positive correlation between cortisol levels and ventral striatal responses to monetary versus erotic cues in PGs, but not in healthy controls. This indicates that the ventral striatum is a key region where cortisol modulates incentive motivation for gambling versus non-gambling related stimuli in PGs. Our results extend the proposed role of glucocorticoid hormones in drug addiction to behavioral addiction, and help understand the impact of cortisol on reward incentive processing in PGs.
The process of pain perception begins in the periphery by activation of nociceptors. From here nociceptive signals are conveyed via the dorsal horn of the spinal cord to multiple brain regions, where pain is perceived. Despite great progress in pain research in recent years, many questions remain regarding nociceptive circuitry and behavior, in both acute nociception and chronic pain states. Techniques that allow for selective activation of neuronal subpopulations in vivo can provide a better understanding of these complex pathways. Here we review the studies to date that have employed novel optogenetic tools to improve our understanding of the pain pathway at the peripheral, spinal and supraspinal levels.
Established fear-related memories can undergo phenomena such as extinction or reconsolidation when recalled. Extinction probably involves the creation of a new, competing memory trace that decreases fear expression, whereas reconsolidation can mediate memory maintenance, updating, or strengthening. The factors determining whether retrieval will initiate extinction, reconsolidation, or neither of these two processes include training intensity, duration of the retrieval session, and age of the memory. However, previous studies have not shown that the same behavioral protocol can be used to induce either extinction or reconsolidation and strengthening, depending on the pharmacological intervention used. Here we show that, within an experiment that leads to extinction in control rats, memory can be strengthened if rolipram, a selective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase type 4 (PDE4), is administered into the dorsal hippocampus immediately after retrieval. The memory-enhancing effect of rolipram lasted for at least 1 week, was blocked by the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin, and did not occur when drug administration was not paired with retrieval. These findings indicate that the behavioral outcome of memory retrieval can be pharmacologically switched from extinction to strengthening. The cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) signaling pathway might be a crucial mechanism determining the fate of memories after recall.
Decreased levels of Nogo-A-dependent signaling have been shown to affect behavior and cognitive functions. In Nogo-A knockout and knockdown laboratory rodents, behavioral alterations were observed, possibly corresponding with human neuropsychiatric diseases of neurodevelopmental origin, particularly schizophrenia. This study offers further insight into behavioral manifestations of Nogo-A knockdown in laboratory rats, focusing on spatial and non-spatial cognition, anxiety levels, circadian rhythmicity, and activity patterns. Demonstrated is an impairment of cognitive functions and behavioral flexibility in a spatial active avoidance task, while non-spatial memory in a step-through avoidance task was spared. No signs of anhedonia, typical for schizophrenic patients, were observed in the animals. Some measures indicated lower anxiety levels in the Nogo-A-deficient group. Circadian rhythmicity in locomotor activity was preserved in the Nogo-A knockout rats and their circadian period (tau) did not differ from controls. However, daily activity patterns were slightly altered in the knockdown animals. We conclude that a reduction of Nogo-A levels induces changes in CNS development, manifested as subtle alterations in cognitive functions, emotionality, and activity patterns.
The superficial layers of the superior colliculus (sSC) appear to function as a subcortical visual pathway that bypasses the striate cortex for the rapid processing of coarse facial information. We investigated the responses of neurons in the monkey sSC during a delayed non-matching-to-sample (DNMS) task in which monkeys were required to discriminate among five categories of visual stimuli [photos of faces with different gaze directions, line drawings of faces, face-like patterns (three dark blobs on a bright oval), eye-like patterns, and simple geometric patterns]. Of the 605 sSC neurons recorded, 216 neurons responded to the visual stimuli. Among the stimuli, face-like patterns elicited responses with the shortest latencies. Low-pass filtering of the images did not influence the responses. However, scrambling of the images increased the responses in the late phase, and this was consistent with a feedback influence from upstream areas. A multidimensional scaling (MDS) analysis of the population data indicated that the sSC neurons could separately encode face-like patterns during the first 25-ms period after stimulus onset, and stimulus categorization developed in the next three 25-ms periods. The amount of stimulus information conveyed by the sSC neurons and the number of stimulus-differentiating neurons were consistently higher during the 2nd to 4th 25-ms periods than during the first 25-ms period. These results suggested that population activity of the sSC neurons preferentially filtered face-like patterns with short latencies to allow for the rapid processing of coarse facial information and developed categorization of the stimuli in later phases through feedback from upstream areas.
The experience of current outcomes influences future decisions in various ways. The neural mechanism of this phenomenon may help to clarify the determinants of decision-making. In this study, thirty-nine young adults finished a risky gambling task by choosing between a high- and a low-risk option in each trial during electroencephalographic data collection. We found that risk-taking strategies significantly modulated mean amplitudes of the event-related potential (ERP) component P3, particularly at the central scalp. The event-related spectral perturbation and the inter-trial coherence measurements of the independent component analysis (ICA) data indicated that the &quot;stay&quot; vs. &quot;switch&quot; electrophysiological difference associated with subsequent decision-making was mainly due to fronto-central theta and left/right mu independent components. Event-related cross-coherence results suggested that the neural information of action monitoring and updating emerged in the fronto-central cortex and propagated to sensorimotor area for further behavior adjustment. Based on these findings of ERP and event-related oscillation (ERO) measures, we propose a neural model of the influence of current outcomes on future decisions.
Rodents show robust behavioral responses to odors, including strong preferences or aversions for certain odors. The neural mechanisms underlying the effects of odors on these behaviors in animals are not well understood. Here, we provide an initial proof-of-concept study into the role of the olfactory tubercle (OT), a structure with known anatomical connectivity with both brain reward and olfactory structures, in regulating odor-motivated behaviors. We implanted c57bl/6 male mice with an ipsilateral bipolar electrode into the OT to administer electric current and thereby yield gross activation of the OT. We confirmed that electrical stimulation of the OT was rewarding, with mice frequently self-administering stimulation on a fixed ratio schedule. In a separate experiment, mice were presented with either fox urine or peanut odors in a three-chamber preference test. In absence of OT stimulation, significant preference for the peanut odor chamber was observed which was abolished in the presence of OT stimulation. Perhaps providing a foundation for this modulation in behavior, we found that OT stimulation significantly increased the number of c-Fos positive neurons in not only the OT, but also in forebrain structures essential to motivated behaviors, including the nucleus accumbens and lateral septum. The present results support the notion that the OT is integral to the display of motivated behavior and possesses the capacity to modulate odor hedonics either by directly altering odor processing or perhaps by indirect actions on brain reward and motivation structures.
There is ample evidence to suggest that the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT) mediates cue-reward learning, especially as it relates to drug-seeking behavior. However, its exact role in these complex processes remains unknown. Here we will present and discuss data from our own laboratory which suggests that the PVT plays a role in multiple forms of stimulus-reward learning, and does so via distinct neurobiological systems. Using an animal model that captures individual variation in response to reward-associated cues, we are able to parse the incentive from the predictive properties of reward cues and to elucidate the neural circuitry underlying these different forms of cue-reward learning. When rats are exposed to a classical Pavlovian conditioning paradigm, wherein a cue predicts food reward, some rats, termed sign-trackers, approach and manipulate the cue upon its presentation. This behavior is indicative of attributing incentive salience to the cue. That is, the cue gains excessive control over behavior for sign-trackers. In contrast, other rats, termed goal-trackers, treat the cue as a mere predictor, and upon its presentation go to the location of reward delivery. Based on our own data utilizing this model, we hypothesize that the PVT represents a common node, but differentially regulates the sign- vs. goal-tracking response. We postulate that the PVT regulates sign-tracking behavior, or the attribution of incentive salience, via subcortical, dopamine-dependent mechanisms. In contrast, we propose that goal-tracking behavior, or the attribution of predictive value, is the product of &quot;top-down&quot; glutamatergic processing between the prelimbic cortex (PrL) and the PVT. Together, data from our laboratory and others support a role for the PVT in cue-motivated behaviors and suggest that it may be an important locus within the neural circuitry that goes awry in addiction and related disorders.
The purpose of this review is to describe how the function and connections of the paraventricular thalamic nucleus (Pa) may play a role in the regulation of stress and negative emotional behavior. Located in the dorsal midline thalamus, the Pa is heavily innervated by serotonin, norepinephrine, dopamine (DA), corticotropin-releasing hormone, and orexins (ORX), and is the only thalamic nucleus connected to the group of structures comprising the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), nucleus accumbens (NAcc), and infralimbic/subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC). These neurotransmitter systems and structures are involved in regulating motivation and mood, and display abnormal functioning in several psychiatric disorders including anxiety, substance use, and major depressive disorders (MDD). Furthermore, rodent studies show that the Pa is consistently and potently activated following a variety of stressors and has a unique role in regulating responses to chronic stressors. These observations provide a compelling rationale for investigating the Pa in the link between stress and negative emotional behavior, and for including the Pa in the neural pathways of stress-related psychiatric disorders.
The atypical PKC isoforms, PKM and PKC have been proposed as integral substrates of long-term memory (LTM). Inhibition of these isoforms has recently been demonstrated to be sufficient for impairing the expression and maintenance of long-term potentiation. Additionally, the pseudosubstrate inhibitor, zeta inhibitory peptide (ZIP), which effectively blocks PKM and PKC, has previously been shown to disrupt associative memory; very little is known about its effects on pathological nonassociative forms of memory related to addiction. The neural and molecular substrates of memory and addiction have recently been argued to overlap. Here, we used ZIP to disrupt PKM and PKC activity to examine their role in cocaine sensitization, a nonassociative, addiction-related memory argued to underlie the transition from casual to pathological drug use. We examined the effects of both continuous and acute administration of ZIP. Even a single application of ZIP blocked the development of sensitization; sustained inhibition using osmotic pumps produced an almost complete blockade of sensitization. Further, a single application of ZIP was shown to reduce membrane-bound AMPAR expression. These results demonstrate a novel, critical role for the atypical PKC isoforms in nonassociative memory and cocaine addiction.
In humans converging evidence indicates that affective aspects of touch are signaled by low threshold mechanoreceptive C tactile (CT) afferents. Analyses of electrophysiological recordings, psychophysical studies in denervated subjects, and functional brain imaging, all indicate that CT primary afferents contribute to pleasant touch and provide an important sensory underpinning of social behavior. Considering both these pleasant and social aspects of gentle skin-to-skin contact, we have put forward a framework within which to consider CT afferent coding properties and pathways-the CT affective touch hypothesis. Recent evidence from studies in mice suggests that CTs, when activated, may have analgesic or anxiolytic effects. However, in neuropathic pain conditions, light touch can elicit unpleasant sensations, so called tactile allodynia. In humans, tactile allodynia is associated with reduced CT mediated hedonic touch processing suggesting loss of the normally analgesic effect of CT signaling. We thus propose that the contribution of CT afferents to tactile allodynia is mainly through a loss of their normally pain inhibiting role.
Many lines of evidence suggest that a reciprocally interconnected network comprising the amygdala, ventral hippocampus (vHC), and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) participates in different aspects of the acquisition and extinction of conditioned fear responses and fear behavior. This could at least in part be mediated by direct connections from mPFC or vHC to amygdala to control amygdala activity and output. However, currently the interactions between mPFC and vHC afferents and their specific targets in the amygdala are still poorly understood. Here, we use an ex-vivo optogenetic approach to dissect synaptic properties of inputs from mPFC and vHC to defined neuronal populations in the basal amygdala (BA), the area that we identify as a major target of these projections. We find that BA principal neurons (PNs) and local BA interneurons (INs) receive monosynaptic excitatory inputs from mPFC and vHC. In addition, both these inputs also recruit GABAergic feedforward inhibition in a substantial fraction of PNs, in some neurons this also comprises a slow GABAB-component. Amongst the innervated PNs we identify neurons that project back to subregions of the mPFC, indicating a loop between neurons in mPFC and BA, and a pathway from vHC to mPFC via BA. Interestingly, mPFC inputs also recruit feedforward inhibition in a fraction of INs, suggesting that these inputs can activate dis-inhibitory circuits in the BA. A general feature of both mPFC and vHC inputs to local INs is that excitatory inputs display faster rise and decay kinetics than in PNs, which would enable temporally precise signaling. However, mPFC and vHC inputs to both PNs and INs differ in their presynaptic release properties, in that vHC inputs are more depressing. In summary, our data describe novel wiring, and features of synaptic connections from mPFC and vHC to amygdala that could help to interpret functions of these interconnected brain areas at the network level.
Animals and humans make decisions based on their expected outcomes. Since relevant outcomes are often delayed, perceiving delays and choosing between earlier vs. later rewards (intertemporal decision-making) is an essential component of animal behavior. The myriad observations made in experiments studying intertemporal decision-making and time perception have not yet been rationalized within a single theory. Here we present a theory-Training-Integrated Maximized Estimation of Reinforcement Rate (TIMERR)-that explains a wide variety of behavioral observations made in intertemporal decision-making and the perception of time. Our theory postulates that animals make intertemporal choices to optimize expected reward rates over a limited temporal window which includes a past integration interval-over which experienced reward rate is estimated-as well as the expected delay to future reward. Using this theory, we derive mathematical expressions for both the subjective value of a delayed reward and the subjective representation of the delay. A unique contribution of our work is in finding that the past integration interval directly determines the steepness of temporal discounting and the non-linearity of time perception. In so doing, our theory provides a single framework to understand both intertemporal decision-making and time perception.
A romantic caress is a basic expression of affiliative behavior and a primary reinforcer. Given its inherent affective valence, its performance also would imply the prediction of reward values. For example, touching a person for whom one has strong passionate feelings likely is motivated by a strong desire for physical contact and associated with the anticipation of hedonic experiences. The present study aims at investigating how the anticipatory neural processes of active romantic caress are modulated by the intensity of the desire for affective contact as reflected by passionate feelings for the other. Functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning was performed in romantically involved partners using a paradigm that allowed to isolate the specific anticipatory representations of active romantic caress, compared with control caress, while testing for the relationship between neural activity and measures of feelings of passionate love for the other. The results demonstrated that right posterior insula activity in anticipation of romantic caress significantly co-varied with the intensity of desire for union with the other. This effect was independent of the sensory-affective properties of the performed touch, like its pleasantness. Furthermore, functional connectivity analysis showed that the same posterior insula cluster interacted with brain regions related to sensory-motor functions as well as to the processing and anticipation of reward. The findings provide insight on the neural substrate mediating between the desire for and the performance of romantic caress. In particular, we propose that anticipatory activity patterns in posterior insula may modulate subsequent sensory-affective processing of skin-to-skin contact.
Despite the well-established role of arginine vasopressin (AVP) in adult social behavior, its role in social development is relatively unexplored. In this paper, we focus on the most prominent social behavior of juvenile rats, social play. Previous pharmacological experiments in our laboratory suggested that AVP regulates play in a sex- and brain region-specific manner in juvenile rats. Here we investigate the role of specific AVP systems in the emergence of social play. We first characterize the development of play in male and female Wistar rats and then ask whether the development of AVP mRNA expression correlates with the emergence of play. Unexpectedly, play emerged more rapidly in weanling-aged females than in males, resulting in a sex difference opposite of that typically reported for older, juvenile rats. AVP mRNA and play were correlated in males only, with a negative correlation in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and a positive correlation in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). These findings support the hypothesis that AVP acts differentially on multiple systems in a sex-specific manner to regulate social play and suggest a role for PVN and BNST AVP systems in the development of play. Differential neuropeptide regulation of male and female social development may underlie well-documented sex differences in incidence, progression, and symptom severity of behavioral disorders during development.
An enduring question is unity vs. separability of executive deficits resulting from impaired frontal lobe function. In previous studies, we have asked how executive deficits link to a conventional measure of fluid intelligence, obtained either by standard tests of novel problem-solving, or by averaging performance in a battery of novel tasks. For some classical executive tasks, such as the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), Verbal Fluency, and Trail Making Test B (TMTB), frontal deficits are entirely explained by fluid intelligence. However, on a second set of executive tasks, including tests of multitasking and decision making, deficits exceed those predicted by fluid intelligence loss. In this paper we discuss how these results shed light on the diverse clinical phenomenology observed in frontal dysfunction, and present new data on a group of 15 schizophrenic patients and 14 controls. Subjects were assessed with a range of executive tests and with a general cognitive battery used to derive a measure of fluid intelligence. Group performance was compared and fluid intelligence was introduced as a covariate. In line with our previous results, significant patient-control differences in classical executive tests were removed when fluid intelligence was introduced as a covariate. However, for tests of multitasking and decision making, deficits remained. We relate our findings to those of previous factor analytic studies describing a single principal component, which accounts for much of the variance of schizophrenic patients' cognitive performance. We propose that this general factor reflects low fluid intelligence capacity, which accounts for much but not all cognitive impairment in this patient group. Partialling out the general effects of fluid intelligence, we propose, may clarify the role of additional, more specific cognitive impairments in conditions such as schizophrenia.
Background: To unravel the causes of major depressive disorder (MDD), the third leading cause of disease burden around the world, ethological animal models have recently been proposed. Our previous studies highlighted a depressive-like profile among single- and socially-housed farm-bred cynomolgus macaques. Although phylogenetically close, cynomolgus and rhesus macaques, the two most commonly used macaque species in biomedical research, differ on several levels such as patterns of aggression, reconciliation, temperament, or dominance styles. The question of whether one captive macaque species was more vulnerable than another in the development of a pathological profile reminiscent of MDD symptoms was explored. Methods: Behavioral data (including body postures, orientations, gaze directions, inter-individual distances, and locations in the cage) were collected in farming conditions. Using an unbiased validated ethological scan-sampling method, followed by multiple correspondence and hierarchical clustering analyses, 40 single- and 35 socially-housed rhesus macaques were assessed. Independently, for each housing condition, inter-species comparisons were made with previously acquired data on farm-bred cynomolgus monkeys. Results: Consistent with our previous studies, we found depressive-like characteristics (e.g., inactivity, low level of investigation and maintenance, long time spent inactive while facing the wall) among single- and socially-housed rhesus macaques. Species-specificities were reported in non-depressive time budgets and in the prevalence of the pathological profiles. Conclusions: Our results suggest that rhesus may be more vulnerable to developing a despair-like state than cynomolgus macaques, both in single- and in social-housing conditions. Therefore, rhesus macaques are more suitable for use as a &quot;spontaneous&quot; model of depressive disorders.
The extinction of conditioned fear depends on an efficient interplay between the amygdala and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In rats, high-frequency electrical mPFC stimulation has been shown to improve extinction by means of a reduction of amygdala activity. However, so far it is unclear whether stimulation of homologues regions in humans might have similar beneficial effects. Healthy volunteers received one session of either active or sham repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) covering the mPFC while undergoing a 2-day fear conditioning and extinction paradigm. Repetitive TMS was applied offline after fear acquisition in which one of two faces (CS+ but not CS-) was associated with an aversive scream (UCS). Immediate extinction learning (day 1) and extinction recall (day 2) were conducted without UCS delivery. Conditioned responses (CR) were assessed in a multimodal approach using fear-potentiated startle (FPS), skin conductance responses (SCR), functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS), and self-report scales. Consistent with the hypothesis of a modulated processing of conditioned fear after high-frequency rTMS, the active group showed a reduced CS+/CS- discrimination during extinction learning as evident in FPS as well as in SCR and arousal ratings. FPS responses to CS+ further showed a linear decrement throughout both extinction sessions. This study describes the first experimental approach of influencing conditioned fear by using rTMS and can thus be a basis for future studies investigating a complementation of mPFC stimulation to cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).
It has been well established that modulating serotonin (5-HT) levels in humans and animals affects perception and response to social threats, however the circuit mechanisms that control 5-HT output during social interaction are not well understood. A better understanding of these systems could provide groundwork for more precise and efficient therapeutic interventions. Here we examined the organization and plasticity of microcircuits implicated in top-down control of 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) by excitatory inputs from the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and their role in social approach-avoidance decisions. We did this in the context of a social defeat model that induces a long lasting form of social aversion that is reversible by antidepressants. We first used viral tracing and Cre-dependent genetic identification of vmPFC glutamatergic synapses in the DRN to determine their topographic distribution in relation to 5-HT and GABAergic subregions and found that excitatory vmPFC projections primarily localized to GABA-rich areas of the DRN. We then used optogenetics in combination with cFos mapping and slice electrophysiology to establish the functional effects of repeatedly driving vmPFC inputs in DRN. We provide the first direct evidence that vmPFC axons drive synaptic activity and immediate early gene expression in genetically identified DRN GABA neurons through an AMPA receptor-dependent mechanism. In contrast, we did not detect vmPFC-driven synaptic activity in 5-HT neurons and cFos induction in 5-HT neurons was limited. Finally we show that optogenetically increasing or decreasing excitatory vmPFC input to the DRN during sensory exposure to an aggressor's cues enhances or diminishes avoidance bias, respectively. These results clarify the functional organization of vmPFC-DRN pathways and identify GABAergic neurons as a key cellular element filtering top-down vmPFC influences on affect-regulating 5-HT output.
The ability to probe defined neural circuits with both the spatial and temporal resolution imparted by optogenetics has transformed the field of neuroscience. Although much attention has been paid to the advantages of manipulating neural activity at millisecond timescales in order to elicit time-locked neural responses, little consideration has been given to the manipulation of circuit activity at physiologically relevant times of day, across multiple days. Nearly all biological events are governed by the circadian clock and exhibit 24 h rhythms in activity. Indeed, neural circuit activity itself exhibits a daily rhythm with distinct temporal peaks in activity occurring at specific times of the day. Therefore, experimentally probing circuit function within and across physiologically relevant time windows (minutes to hours) in behaving animals is fundamental to understanding the function of any one particular circuit within the intact brain. Furthermore, understanding how circuit function changes with repeated manipulation is important for modeling the circuit-wide disruptions that occur with chronic disease states. Here, we review recent advances in optogenetic technology that allow for chronic, temporally specific, control of circuit activity and provide examples of chronic optogenetic paradigms that have been utilized in the search for the neural circuit basis of behaviors relevant to human neuropsychiatric disease.
Translating promising preclinical drug discoveries to successful clinical trials remains a significant hurdle in pain research. Although animal models have significantly contributed to understanding chronic pain pathophysiology, the majority of research has focused on male rodents using testing procedures that produce sex difference data that do not align well with comparable clinical experiences. Additionally, the use of animal pain models presents ongoing ethical challenges demanding continuing refinement of preclinical methods. To this end, this study sought to test a quantitative allodynia assessment technique and associated statistical analysis in a modified graded nerve injury pain model with the aim to further examine sex differences in allodynia. Graded allodynia was established in male and female Sprague Dawley rats by altering the number of sutures placed around the sciatic nerve and quantified by the von Frey test. Linear mixed effects modeling regressed response on each fixed effect (sex, oestrus cycle, pain treatment). On comparison with other common von Frey assessment techniques, utilizing lower threshold filaments than those ordinarily tested, at 1 s intervals, appropriately and successfully investigated female mechanical allodynia, revealing significant sex and oestrus cycle difference across the graded allodynia that other common behavioral methods were unable to detect. Utilizing this different von Frey approach and graded allodynia model, a single suture inflicting less allodynia was sufficient to demonstrate exaggerated female mechanical allodynia throughout the phases of dioestrus and pro-oestrus. Refining the von Frey testing method, statistical analysis technique and the use of a graded model of chronic pain, allowed for examination of the influences on female mechanical nociception that other von Frey methods cannot provide.
Chemotaxis is a powerful paradigm to study how orientation behavior is driven by sensory stimulation. Drosophila larvae navigate odor gradients by controlling the duration of their runs and the direction of their turns. Straight runs and wide-amplitude turns represent two extremes of a behavioral continuum. Here we establish that, on average, runs curl toward the direction of higher odor concentrations. We find that the orientation and strength of the local odor gradient perpendicular to the direction of motion modulates the orientation of individual runs in a gradual manner. We discuss how this error-correction mechanism, called weathervaning, contributes to larval chemotaxis. We use larvae with a genetically modified olfactory system to demonstrate that unilateral function restricted to a single olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) is sufficient to direct weathervaning. Our finding that bilateral sensing is not necessary to control weathervaning highlights the role of temporal sampling. A correlational analysis between sensory inputs and behavioral outputs suggests that weathervaning results from low-amplitude head casts implemented without interruption of the run. In addition, we report the involvement of a sensorimotor memory arising from previous reorientation events. Together, our results indicate that larval chemotaxis combines concurrent orientation strategies that involve complex computations on different timescales.
Non-conscious visual processing of different object categories was investigated in a rare patient with bilateral destruction of the visual cortex (V1) and clinical blindness over the entire visual field. Images of biological and non-biological object categories were presented consisting of human bodies, faces, butterflies, cars, and scrambles. Behaviorally, only the body shape induced higher perceptual sensitivity, as revealed by signal detection analysis. Passive exposure to bodies and faces activated amygdala and superior temporal sulcus. In addition, bodies also activated the extrastriate body area, insula, orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and cerebellum. The results show that following bilateral damage to the primary visual cortex and ensuing complete cortical blindness, the human visual system is able to process categorical properties of human body shapes. This residual vision may be based on V1-independent input to body-selective areas along the ventral stream, in concert with areas involved in the representation of bodily states, like insula, OFC, and cerebellum.
Addiction is considered to be a brain disease caused by chronic exposure to drugs. Sensitization of brain dopamine (DA) systems partly mediates this effect. Pathological gambling (PG) is considered to be a behavioral addiction. Therefore, PG may be caused by chronic exposure to gambling. Identifying a gambling-induced sensitization of DA systems would support this possibility. Gambling rewards evoke DA release. One episode of slot machine play shifts the DA response from reward delivery to onset of cues (spinning reels) for reward, in line with temporal difference learning principles. Thus, conditioned stimuli (CS) play a key role in DA responses to gambling. In primates, DA response to a CS is strongest when reward probability is 50%. Under this schedule the CS elicits an expectancy of reward but provides no information about whether it will occur on a given trial. During gambling, a 50% schedule should elicit maximal DA release. This closely matches reward frequency (46%) on a commercial slot machine. DA release can contribute to sensitization, especially for amphetamine. Chronic exposure to a CS that predicts reward 50% of the time could mimic this effect. We tested this hypothesis in three studies with rats. Animals received 15  45-min exposures to a CS that predicted reward with a probability of 0, 25, 50, 75, or 100%. The CS was a light; the reward was a 10% sucrose solution. After training, rats received a sensitizing regimen of five separate doses (1 mg/kg) of d-amphetamine. Lastly they received a 0.5 or 1 mg/kg amphetamine challenge prior to a 90-min locomotor activity test. In all three studies the 50% group displayed greater activity than the other groups in response to both challenge doses. Effect sizes were modest but consistent, as reflected by a significant group  rank association ( = 0.986, p = 0.025). Chronic exposure to a gambling-like schedule of reward predictive stimuli can promote sensitization to amphetamine much like exposure to amphetamine itself.
The meso-cortico-limbic system, via dopamine release, encodes the rewarding and reinforcing properties of natural rewards. It is also activated in response to abused substances and is believed to support drug-related behaviors. Dysfunctions of this system lead to several psychiatric conditions including feeding disorders and drug addiction. These disorders are also largely influenced by environmental factors and in particular stress exposure. Stressors activate the corticotrope axis ultimately leading to glucocorticoid hormone (GCs) release. GCs bind the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) a transcription factor ubiquitously expressed including within the meso-cortico-limbic tract. While GR within dopamine-innervated areas drives cocaine's behavioral responses, its implication in responses to other psychostimulants such as amphetamine has never been clearly established. Moreover, while extensive work has been made to uncover the role of this receptor in addicted behaviors, its contribution to the rewarding and reinforcing properties of food has yet to be investigated. Using mouse models carrying GR gene inactivation in either dopamine neurons or in dopamine-innervated areas, we found that GR in dopamine responsive neurons is essential to properly build amphetamine-induced conditioned place preference and locomotor sensitization. c-Fos quantification in the nucleus accumbens further confirmed defective neuronal activation following amphetamine injection. These diminished neuronal and behavioral responses to amphetamine may involve alterations in glutamate transmission as suggested by the decreased MK801-elicited hyperlocomotion and by the hyporeactivity to glutamate of a subpopulation of medium spiny neurons. In contrast, GR inactivation did not affect rewarding and reinforcing properties of food suggesting that responding for natural reward under basal conditions is preserved in these mice.
The search for neuronal and psychological underpinnings of pathological gambling in humans would benefit from investigating related phenomena also outside of our species. In this paper, we present a survey of studies in three widely different populations of agents, namely rodents, non-human primates, and robots. Each of these populations offers valuable and complementary insights on the topic, as the literature demonstrates. In addition, we highlight the deep and complex connections between relevant results across these different areas of research (i.e., cognitive and computational neuroscience, neuroethology, cognitive primatology, neuropsychiatry, evolutionary robotics), to make the case for a greater degree of methodological integration in future studies on pathological gambling.
Social interaction with unknown individuals requires fast processing of information to decide whether it is friend or foe. This process of discrimination and decision-making is stressful and triggers secretion of corticosterone activating mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR). The MR is involved in appraisal of novel experiences and risk assessment. Recently, we have demonstrated in a dual-solution memory task that MR plays a role in the early stage of information processing and decision-making. Here we examined social approach and social discrimination in male and female mice lacking MR from hippocampal-amygdala-prefrontal circuitry and controls. The social approach task allows the assessment of time spent with an unfamiliar mouse and the ability to discriminate between familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics. The male and female test mice were both more interested in the social than the non-social experience and deletion of their limbic MR increased the time spent with an unfamiliar mouse. Unlike controls, the male MR(CaMKCre) mice were not able to discriminate between an unfamiliar and the familiar mouse. However, the female MR mutant had retained the discriminative ability between unfamiliar and familiar mice. Administration of the MR antagonist RU28318 to male mice supported the role of the MR in the discrimination between an unfamiliar mouse and a non-social stimulus. No effect was found with a GR antagonist. Our findings suggest that MR is involved in sociability and social discrimination in a sex-specific manner through inhibitory control exerted putatively via limbic-hippocampal efferents. The ability to discriminate between familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics is of uttermost importance for territorial defense and depends on a role of MR in decision-making.
Behavioral neuroscience is relying more and more on automated behavior assessment, which is often more time-efficient and objective than manual scoring by a human observer. However, parameter adjustment and calibration are a trial-and-error process that requires careful fine-tuning in order to obtain reliable software scores in each context configuration. In this paper, we will pinpoint some caveats regarding the choice of parameters, and give an overview of our own and other researchers' experience with widely used behavioral assessment software. We conclude that, although each researcher should weigh the pros and cons of relying on software vs. manual scoring, we should be aware of possible divergence between both scores, which might be especially relevant when dealing with subtle behavioral effects, like for example in generalization or genetic research.
Affective tactile stimulation plays a key role in the maturation of neural circuits, but the development of brain mechanisms processing touch is poorly understood. We therefore used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study brain responses to soft brush stroking of both glabrous (palm) and hairy (forearm) skin in healthy children (5-13 years), adolescents (14-17 years), and adults (25-35 years). Adult-defined regions-of-interests in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI), secondary somatosensory cortex (SII), insular cortex and right posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) were significantly and similarly activated in all age groups. Whole-brain analyses revealed that responses in the ipsilateral SII were positively correlated with age in both genders, and that responses in bilateral regions near the pSTS correlated significantly and strongly with age in females but not in males. These results suggest that brain mechanisms associated with both sensory-discriminative and affective-motivational aspects of touch are largely established in school-aged children, and that there is a general continuing maturation of SII and a female-specific increase in pSTS sensitivity with age. Our work establishes a groundwork for future comparative studies of tactile processing in developmental disorders characterized by disrupted social perception such as autism.
Background: Well-validated models of maternal behavior in small-brain mammals posit a central role of oxytocin in parenting, by reducing stress and enhancing the reward value of social interactions with offspring. In contrast, human studies are only beginning to gain insights into how oxytocin modulates maternal behavior and affiliation. Methods: To explore associations between oxytocin receptor genes and maternal parenting behavior in humans, we conducted a genetic imaging study of women selected to exhibit a wide range of observed parenting when their children were 4-6 years old. Results: In response to child stimuli during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), hemodynamic responses in brain regions that mediate affect, reward, and social behavior were significantly correlated with observed positive parenting. Furthermore, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (rs53576 and rs1042778) in the gene encoding the oxytocin receptor were significantly associated with both positive parenting and hemodynamic responses to child stimuli in orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and hippocampus. Conclusions: These findings contribute to the emerging literature on the role of oxytocin in human social behavior and support the feasibility of tracing biological pathways from genes to neural regions to positive maternal parenting behaviors in humans using genetic imaging methods.
Mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors (MRs and GRs) mediate the impact of stress on brain function primarily by affecting gene transcription in the cell nucleus. In vitro studies using hippocampal neurons indicate that MRs and GRs translocate to the nucleus after binding to the stress hormone corticosterone, yet the in vivo temporal dynamics of MR and GR levels in other limbic regions critical for the stress response, however, are largely unknown. Rats underwent an elevated platform (EP) stress procedure and brain tissue was sampled from the amygdala (AMY), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), dorsal hippocampus and ventral hippocampus. By measuring MR and GR levels in the nuclear fraction from the tissue sampled, we observed striking shifts in the protein levels that varied by receptor, brain region and by the time after EP stress. These findings indicate that the subcellular trafficking of corticosteroid receptors display distinct temporal dynamics in different limbic regions after behavioral stress. These heterogeneous effects could underlie contrasting regional responses to stress within the brain, and they highlight the importance for systems-level analysis of stress responsivity.
Recollection of emotional memories is attributed in part to the activation of the amygdala and the hippocampus. Recent hypothesis suggests a pivotal role for the ventral hippocampus (VH) in traumatic stress processing and emotional memory retrieval. Persistent re-experiencing and intrusive recollections are core symptoms in acute and posttraumatic stress disorders (ASD; PTSD). Such intrusive recollections are often triggered by reminders associated with the trauma. We examined the impact of exposure to a trauma reminder (under water trauma (UWT)) on the activation of the basolateral amygdala (BLA), dorsal and VH. Rats were exposed to UWT and 24 h later were re-exposed to the context of the trauma. Phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) was used as a marker for level of activation of these regions. Significant increase in ERK activation was found in the VH and BLA. Such pattern of activation was not found in animals exposed only to the trauma or in animals exposed only to the trauma reminder. Additionally, the dissociative pattern of activation of the VH sub-regions positively correlated with the activation of the BLA. Our findings suggest a specific pattern of neural activation during recollection of a trauma reminder, with a unique contribution of the VH. Measured 24 h after the exposure to the traumatic experience, the current findings relate to relatively early stages of traumatic memory consolidation. Understanding the neural mechanisms underlying these initial stages may contribute to developing intervention strategies that could reduce the risk of eventually developing PTSD.
The research investigating the nature of cognitive processes involved in the representation of economical outcomes is growing. Within this research, the mental accounting model proposes that individuals may well use cognitive operations to organize, evaluate, and keep track of their financial activities (Thaler, 1999). Here we wanted to test this hypothesis by asking to a group of participants to detect a syntax mistake of verbs indicating incoming and going out activities related to economical profit (trading verbs), swapping (swapping verbs) and thinking (thinking verbs). We reported a left-right compatibility for trading verbs (i.e., participants were faster with their right hand while detecting verb referring to a monetary gain with respect to a monetary loss; and faster with their left hand while detecting a monetary loss with respect to a monetary gain). However, this pattern of result was not reported while detecting swapping verbs. Results are discussed taking into account the mental accounting theory as well as to the spatial mapping of valence hypothesis.
The rat anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) mediates effort-based decision making when the task requires the physical effort of climbing a ramp. Normal rats will readily climb a barrier leading to high reward whereas rats with ACC lesions will opt instead for an easily obtained small reward. The present study explored whether the role of ACC in cost-benefit decisions extends beyond climbing by testing its role in ramp climbing as well as two novel cost-benefit decision tasks, one involving the physical effort of lifting weights and the other the emotional cost of overcoming fear (i.e., &quot;courage&quot;). As expected, rats with extensive ACC lesions tested on a ramp-climbing task were less likely to choose a high-reward/high-effort arm than sham controls. However, during the first few trials, lesioned rats were as likely as controls to initially turn into the high-reward arm (HRA) but far less likely to actually climb the barrier, suggesting that the role of the ACC is not in deciding which course of action to pursue, but rather in maintaining a course of action in the face of countervailing forces. In the effort-reward decision task involving weight lifting, some lesion animals behaved like controls while others avoided the HRA. However, the results were not statistically significant and a follow-up study using incremental increasing effort failed to show any difference between lesion and control groups. The results suggest that the ACC is not needed for effort-reward decisions involving weight lifting but may affect motor abilities. Finally, a courage task explored the willingness of rats to overcome the fear of crossing an open, exposed arm to obtain a high reward. Both sham and ACC-lesioned animals exhibited equal tendencies to enter the open arm. However, whereas sham animals gradually improved on the task, ACC-lesioned rats did not. Taken together, the results suggest that the role of the ACC in effort-reward decisions may be limited to certain tasks.
In the last decade the Drosophila larva has evolved into a simple model organism offering the opportunity to integrate molecular genetics with systems neuroscience. This led to a detailed understanding of the neuronal networks for a number of sensory functions and behaviors including olfaction, vision, gustation and learning and memory. Typically, behavioral assays in use exploit simple Petri dish setups with either agarose or agar as a substrate. However, neither the quality nor the concentration of the substrate is generally standardized across these experiments and there is no data available on how larval behavior is affected by such different substrates. Here, we have investigated the effects of different agarose concentrations on several larval behaviors. We demonstrate that agarose concentration is an important parameter, which affects all behaviors tested: preference, feeding, learning and locomotion. Larvae can discriminate between different agarose concentrations, they feed differently on them, they can learn to associate an agarose concentration with an odor stimulus and change locomotion on a substrate of higher agarose concentration. Additionally, we have investigated the effect of agarose concentration on three quinine based behaviors: preference, feeding and learning. We show that in all cases examined the behavioral output changes in an agarose concentration-dependent manner. Our results suggest that comparisons between experiments performed on substrates differing in agarose concentration should be done with caution. It should be taken into consideration that the agarose concentration can affect the behavioral output and thereby the experimental outcomes per se potentially due to the initiation of an escape response or changes in foraging behavior on more rigid substrates.
The mesolimbic reward system is primarily comprised of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the nucleus accumbens (NAc) as well as their afferent and efferent connections. This circuitry is essential for learning about stimuli associated with motivationally-relevant outcomes. Moreover, addictive drugs affect and remodel this system, which may underlie their addictive properties. In addition to dopamine (DA) neurons, the VTA also contains approximately 30% -aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons. The task of signaling both rewarding and aversive events from the VTA to the NAc has mostly been ascribed to DA neurons and the role of GABA neurons has been largely neglected until recently. GABA neurons provide local inhibition of DA neurons and also long-range inhibition of projection regions, including the NAc. Here we review studies using a combination of in vivo and ex vivo electrophysiology, pharmacogenetic and optogenetic manipulations that have characterized the functional neuroanatomy of inhibitory circuits in the mesolimbic system, and describe how GABA neurons of the VTA regulate reward and aversion-related learning. We also discuss pharmacogenetic manipulation of this system with benzodiazepines (BDZs), a class of addictive drugs, which act directly on GABAA receptors located on GABA neurons of the VTA. The results gathered with each of these approaches suggest that VTA GABA neurons bi-directionally modulate activity of local DA neurons, underlying reward or aversion at the behavioral level. Conversely, long-range GABA projections from the VTA to the NAc selectively target cholinergic interneurons (CINs) to pause their firing and temporarily reduce cholinergic tone in the NAc, which modulates associative learning. Further characterization of inhibitory circuit function within and beyond the VTA is needed in order to fully understand the function of the mesolimbic system under normal and pathological conditions.
Molecular processes in GABAergic local circuit neurons critically contribute to information processing in the hippocampus and to stress-induced activation of the amygdala. In the current study, we determined expression changes in GABA-related factors induced in subregions of the dorsal hippocampus as well as in the BLA of rats 5 h after spatial learning in a Morris water maze (MWM), using laser microdissection and quantitative real-time PCR. Spatial learning resulted in highly selective pattern of changes in hippocampal subregions: gene expression levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY) were reduced in the hilus of the dentate gyrus (DG), whereas somatostatin (SST) was increased in the stratum oriens (SO) of CA3. The GABA-synthesizing enzymes GAD65 and GAD67 as well as the neuropeptide cholecystokinin (CCK) were reduced in SO of CA1. In the BLA, expression of GAD65 and GAD67 were reduced compared to a handled Control group. These expression patterns were further compared to alterations in a group of rats that have been exposed to the water maze but were not provided with an invisible escape platform. In this Water Exposure group, no expression changes were observed in any of the hippocampal subregions, but a differential regulation of all selected target genes was evident in the BLA. These findings suggest that expression changes of GABAergic factors in the hippocampus are associated with spatial learning, while additional stress effects modulate expression alterations in the BLA. Indeed, while in both experimental groups plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels were enhanced, only Water Exposure stress activated the basolateral amygdala (BLA), as indicated by increased levels of phosphorylated ERK 1/2. Altered GABAergic function in the BLA may thus contribute to memory consolidation in the hippocampus, in relation to levels of stress and emotionality associated with the experience.
Often, freezing and startle behaviors in the context of a previously experienced stress are taken as an indication of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)-like symptoms in rats. However, PTSD is characterized by large individual variations of symptoms. In order to take into consideration the complex and long term distinctive variations in effects of trauma exposure additional behavioral measures are required. The current study used a novel behavioral test, the water associated zero maze (WAZM). This test was planned to enable a formation of an association between the context of the maze and an underwater trauma (UWT) or swim stress in order to examine the impact of exposure to the context which immediately precedes a stressful or a traumatic experience on rat's complex behavior. Rats were exposed to the WAZM and immediately after to an UWT or short swim. One month later rats were re-exposed to the context of the WAZM while their behavior was video recorded. Furthermore, c-Fos expression in the amygdala was measured 90 min after this exposure. The results of the current study indicate that the WAZM can be used to discern behavioral changes measured a long time after the actual traumatic or stressful events. Furthermore, the behavioral changes detected were accompanied by changes of c-Fos expression in the amygdala of exposed rats. We suggest that the WAZM can be used to model traumatic memories re-experiencing in rodent models of human stress-related pathologies such as PTSD.
Aging is associated with a decline in episodic memory function. This is accompanied by degradation of and functional changes in the medial temporal lobe (MTL) which subserves mnemonic processing. To date no study has investigated age-related functional change in MTL substructures during specific episodic memory processes such as intra-item associative memory. The aim of this study was to characterize age-related change in the neural correlates of intra-item associative memory processing. Sixteen young and 10 older subjects participated in a compound word intra-item associative memory task comprising a measure of associative recognition memory and a measure of recognition memory. There was no difference in performance between groups on the associative memory measure but each group recruited different MTL regions while performing the task. The young group recruited the left anterior hippocampus and posterior parahippocampal gyrus whereas the older participants recruited the hippocampus bilaterally. In contrast, recognition memory was significantly worse in the older subjects. The left anterior hippocampus was recruited in the young group during successful recognition memory whereas the older group recruited a more posterior region of the left hippocampus and showed a more bilateral activation of frontal brain regions than was observed in the young group. Our results suggest a reorganization of the neural correlates of intra-item associative memory in the aging brain.
Pupil dilation under constant illumination is a physiological marker where modulation is related to several cognitive functions involved in daily decision making. There is evidence for a role of pupil dilation change during decision-making tasks associated with uncertainty, reward-prediction errors and surprise. However, while some work suggests that pupil dilation is mainly modulated by reward predictions, others point out that this marker is related to uncertainty signaling and surprise. Supporting the latter hypothesis, the neural substrate of this marker is related to noradrenaline (NA) activity which has been also related to uncertainty signaling. In this work we aimed to test whether pupil dilation is a marker for uncertainty and surprise in a learning task. We recorded pupil dilation responses in 10 participants performing the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a decision-making task that requires learning and constant monitoring of outcomes' feedback, which are important variables within the traditional study of human decision making. Results showed that pupil dilation changes were modulated by learned uncertainty and surprise regardless of feedback magnitudes. Interestingly, greater pupil dilation changes were found during positive feedback (PF) presentation when there was lower uncertainty about a future negative feedback (NF); and by surprise during NF presentation. These results support the hypothesis that pupil dilation is a marker of learned uncertainty, and may be used as a marker of NA activity facing unfamiliar situations in humans.
Depression and anxiety disorders are more common in women than men, and little is known about the neurobiological mechanisms that contribute to this disparity. Recent data suggest that stress-induced changes in neurotrophins have opposing effects on behavior by acting in different brain networks. Social defeat has been an important approach for understanding neurotrophin action, but low female aggression levels in rats and mice have limited the application of these methods primarily to males. We examined the effects of social defeat in monogamous California mice (Peromyscus californicus), a species in which both males and females defend territories. We demonstrate that defeat stress increases mature brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein but not mRNA in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) in females but not males. Changes in BDNF protein were limited to anterior subregions of the BNST, and there were no changes in the adjacent nucleus accumbens (NAc). The effects of defeat on social withdrawal behavior and BDNF were reversed by chronic, low doses of the antidepressant sertraline. However, higher doses of sertraline restored social withdrawal and elevated BDNF levels. Acute treatment with a low dose of sertraline failed to reverse the effects of defeat. Infusions of the selective tyrosine-related kinase B receptor (TrkB) antagonist ANA-12 into the anterior BNST specifically increased social interaction in stressed females but had no effect on behavior in females nave to defeat. These results suggest that stress-induced increases in BDNF in the anterior BNST contribute to the exaggerated social withdrawal phenotype observed in females.
Identification of the underlying liability to develop bipolar disorders (BD) is hindered by the genetic complexity and phenotypic heterogeneity of the disease. The use of endophenotypes has been acknowledged as a promising approach that may detect the hidden manifestations of a genetic liability for an illness. One of the most commonly proposed endophenotypes in BD is neurocognitive performance. We identified and examined previously published review articles that had any data pertaining to endophenotypes in BD and combined this with an extensive review of studies of cognitive deficits in BD from 2000 onwards. Using criteria for a valid endophenotype, we identifed that the domains of executive functioning and verbal memory are the most promising candidate endophenotypes for BD. However, they do not meet the criteria for specificity as similar deficits present in schizophrenia and/or severe or psychotic major depressions. Further research is needed as the findings regarding endophenotypes show between-study heterogeneity. In the future, examination of quantitative traits may offer a more promising approach to the study of endophenotypes rather than solely focusing on diagnostic categories.
Neuropathic pain is experienced as a result of disease or physical injury affecting the somatosensory system. It can be associated with abnormal sensations (dysesthesia) or evoked by normally nonpainful stimuli. Glia has emerged as key regulators of neuropathic pain perception and potential targets for drug development. Glia are activated upon peripheral nerve damage and secrete a number of proinflammatory factors. This process involves many mechanisms including neuroinflammation, ion channel activation, and ligand-receptor interactions. This review describes recent advances in the understanding of neuropathic pain, including the role of glia and their targeting by current treatment approaches.
Bone marrow contains hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and non hematopoietic cells. HSCs are able to give rise to all types of mature blood cells, while the non hematopoietic component includes osteoblasts/osteoclasts, endothelial cells, endothelial progenitor cells and mesenchymal stem cells. All of these cells form specialized &quot;niches&quot; which are close to the vasculature (&quot;vascular niche&quot;) or to the endosteum (&quot;osteoblast niche&quot;). The &quot;vascular niche&quot; is rich in blood vessels where endothelial cells and mural cells (pericytes and smooth muscle cells) create a microenvironment that affects the behavior of several stem and progenitor cells. The vessel wall serves as an independent niche for the recruitment of endothelial progenitor cells, mesenchymal stem cells and HSCs. The activation by angiogenic factors and inflammatory cytokines switch of the &quot;vascular niche&quot; promote tumor growth. This review article will focus on the description of the mechanisms involved in the generation of signals released by endothelial cells in the &quot;vascular niche&quot; that promote tumor growth in multiple myeloma.
Chronobiological models have contributed to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of bipolar disorders. Circadian functions dysregulations are associated with bipolar disorders, including biochemical (melatonin and cortisol profiles), actigraphic (sleep/wake patterns), and dimensional (chronotypes) circadian markers. These associations are observed not only during acute episodes but also during euthymic periods. Most markers that are associated with bipolar disorders are also found in the healthy relatives of patients, suggesting a strong degree of heritability. As such, they may serve as trait markers of the disorder. Several circadian genes have been found to be associated with bipolar disorders: at least three studies have reported positive associations for each of CLOCK, NPAS2, ARNTL1, NR1D1, PER3, RORB and CSNK1epsilon. Thus the clock machinery may contribute to the genetic susceptibility to bipolar disorders. The circadian model theory has also led to the development of novel therapeutic strategies such as InterPersonal and Social Rhythms Therapy and chronotherapeutics. Additionally, the circadian model theory may help explain how mood stabilizers (in particular lithium carbonate) bring about their therapeutic effects.
The human brain effortlessly extracts a wealth of information from natural speech, which allows the listener to both understand the speech message and recognise who is speaking. This article reviews behavioural and neuroscientific work that has attempted to characterise how listeners achieve speaker recognition. Behavioural studies suggest that the action of a speaker's glottal folds and the overall length of their vocal tract carry important voice-quality information. Although these cues are useful for discriminating and recognising speakers under certain circumstances, listeners may use virtually any systematic feature for recognition. Neuroscientific studies have revealed that speaker recognition relies upon a predominantly right-lateralised network of brain regions. Specifically, the posterior parts of superior temporal sulcus appear to perform some of the acoustical analyses necessary for the perception of speaker and message, whilst anterior portions may play a more abstract role in perceiving speaker identity. This voice-processing network is supported by direct, early connections to non-auditory regions, such as the visual face-sensitive area in the fusiform gyrus, which may serve to optimize person recognition.
Gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) is the main inhibitory transmitter of the brain. It operates by binding to specific receptors located both inside and outside synapses. The extrasynaptic receptors are activated by spillover from GABAergic synapses and by ambient GABA in the extracellular space. Ambient GABA is essential for adjusting the excitability of neurons. However, due to the lack of suitable methods, little is known about its dynamics. Here we describe a new technique that allows detection of GABA transients and measurement of the steady state GABA concentration with high spatial and temporal resolution. We used a human embryonic kidney (HEK) cell line that stably expresses GABAA receptors composed of 1, 2, and 2 subunits. We recorded from such a HEK cell with the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. The presence of GABA near the HEK cell generated a measurable electric current whose magnitude increased with concentration. A fraction of the current did not inactivate during prolonged exposition to GABA. This technique, which we refer to as a &quot;sniffer&quot; allows the measurement of ambient GABA concentration inside nervous tissue with a resolution of few tens of nanomolars. In addition, the sniffer detects variations in the extrasynaptic GABA concentration with millisecond time resolution. Pilot experiments demonstrate that the sniffer is able to report spillover of GABA induced by synaptic activation in real time. This is the first report on a GABA sensor that combines the ability to detect fast transients and to measure steady concentrations.






The hippocampus is one of the earliest affected brain regions in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its dysfunction is believed to underlie the core feature of the disease-memory impairment. Given that hippocampal volume is one of the best AD biomarkers, our review focuses on distinct subfields within the hippocampus, pinpointing regions that might enhance the predictive value of current diagnostic methods. Our review presents how changes in hippocampal volume, shape, symmetry and activation are reflected by cognitive impairment and how they are linked with neurogenesis alterations. Moreover, we revisit the functional differentiation along the anteroposterior longitudinal axis of the hippocampus and discuss its relevance for AD diagnosis. Finally, we indicate that apart from hippocampal subfield volumetry, the characteristic pattern of hippocampal hyperactivation associated with seizures and neurogenesis changes is another promising candidate for an early AD biomarker that could become also a target for early interventions.

Innate immune responses have been shown to influence brain development and function. Dysregulation of innate immunity is significantly associated with psychiatric disorders such as autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia, which are well-known neurodevelopmental disorders. Recent studies have revealed that critical players of the innate immune response are expressed in neuronal tissues and regulate neuronal function and activity. For example, Sarm1, a negative regulator that acts downstream of Toll-like receptor (TLR) 3 and 4, is predominantly expressed in neurons. We have previously shown that Sarm1 regulates neuronal morphogenesis and the expression of inflammatory cytokines in the brain, which then affects learning ability, cognitive flexibility, and social interaction. Because impaired neuronal morphogenesis and dysregulation of cytokine expression may disrupt neuronal activity, we investigated whether Sarm1 knockdown affects the synaptic responses of neurons. We here show that reduced Sarm1 expression impairs metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-dependent long-term depression (LTD) formation but enhances N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation production in hippocampal CA1 neurons. The expression levels of post-synaptic proteins, including NR2a, NR1, Shank1 and Shank3, are also altered in Sarm1 knockdown mice, suggesting a role for Sarm1 in the maintenance of synaptic homeostasis. The addition of a positive allosteric modulator of mGluR5, CDPPB, ameliorates the LTD defects in slice recording and the behavioral deficits in social interaction and associative memory. These results suggest an important role for mGluR5 signaling in the function of Sarm1. In conclusion, our study demonstrates a role for Sarm1 in the regulation of synaptic plasticity. Through these mechanisms, Sarm1 knockdown results in the impairment of associative memory and social interactions in mice.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-bound particles secreted by almost all cell types. They are classified depending on their biogenesis and size into exosomes and microvesicles or according to their cell origin. EVs play a role in cell-to-cell communication, including contact-free cell synapsis, carrying active membrane proteins, lipids, and genetic material both inside the particle and on their surface. They have been related to several physiological and pathological conditions. In particular, increasing concentrations of EVs have been found in many autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a central nervous system (CNS) demyelinating disease characterized by relapsing of symptoms followed by periods of remission. Close interaction between endothelial cells, leukocytes, monocytes, and cells from CNS is crucial for the development of MS. This review summarizes the pathological role of EVs in MS and the relationship of EVs with clinical characteristics, therapy, and biomarkers of the disease.
-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) depolarizes embryonic cerebrocortical neurons and continuous activation of the GABAA receptor (GABAAR) contributes to their tonic depolarization. Although multiple reports have demonstrated a role of GABAAR activation in neocortical development, including in migration, most of these studies have used pharmacological blockers. Herein, we performed in utero electroporation in GABA synthesis-lacking homozygous GAD67-GFP knock-in mice (GAD67(GFP/GFP)) to label neurons born in the ventricular zone. Three days after electroporation, there were no differences in the distribution of labeled cells between the genotypes. The dose-response properties of labeled cells to GABA were equivalent among genotypes. However, continuous blockade of GABAAR with the GABAAR antagonist SR95531 accelerated radial migration. This effect of GABAAR blockade in GAD67(GFP/GFP) mice suggested a role for alternative endogenous GABAAR agonists. Thus, we tested the role of taurine, which is derived from maternal blood but is abundant in the fetal brain. The taurine-evoked currents in labeled cells were mediated by GABAAR. Taurine uptake was blocked by a taurine transporter inhibitor, 2-(guanidino)ethanesulfonic acid (GES), and taurine release was blocked by a volume-sensitive anion channel blocker, 4-(2-butyl-6,7-dichlor-2-cyclopentylindan-1-on-5-yl) oxobutyric acid, as examined through high-performance liquid chromatography. GES increased the extracellular taurine concentration and induced an inward shift of the holding current, which was reversed by SR95531. In a taurine-deficient mouse model, the GABAAR-mediated tonic currents were greatly reduced, and radial migration was accelerated. As the tonic currents were equivalent among the genotypes of GAD67-GFP knock-in mice, taurine, rather than GABA, might play a major role as an endogenous agonist of embryonic tonic GABAAR conductance, regulating the radial migration of neurons in the developing neocortex.
The mammalian neocortex is composed of a variety of cell types organized in a highly interconnected circuit. GABAergic neurons account for only about 20% of cortical neurons. However, they show widespread connectivity and a high degree of diversity in morphology, location, electrophysiological properties and gene expression. In addition, distinct populations of inhibitory neurons have different sensory response properties, capacities for plasticity and sensitivities to changes in sensory experience. In this review we summarize experimental evidence regarding the properties of GABAergic neurons in primary sensory cortex. We will discuss how distinct GABAergic neurons and different forms of GABAergic inhibitory plasticity may contribute to shaping sensory cortical circuit activity and function.
Neurodegenerative diseases in general and specifically late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) involve a genetically complex and largely obscure ensemble of causative and risk factors accompanied by complex feedback responses. The advent of &quot;high-throughput&quot; transcriptome investigation technologies such as microarray and deep sequencing is increasingly being combined with sophisticated statistical and bioinformatics analysis methods complemented by knowledge-based approaches such as Bayesian Networks or network and graph analyses. Together, such &quot;integrative&quot; studies are beginning to identify co-regulated gene networks linked with biological pathways and potentially modulating disease predisposition, outcome, and progression. Specifically, bioinformatics analyses of integrated microarray and genotyping data in cases and controls reveal changes in gene expression of both protein-coding and small and long regulatory RNAs; highlight relevant quantitative transcriptional differences between LOAD and non-demented control brains and demonstrate reconfiguration of functionally meaningful molecular interaction structures in LOAD. These may be measured as changes in connectivity in &quot;hub nodes&quot; of relevant gene networks (Zhang etal., 2013). We illustrate here the open analytical questions in the transcriptome investigation of neurodegenerative disease studies, proposing &quot;ad hoc&quot; strategies for the evaluation of differential gene expression and hints for a simple analysis of the non-coding RNA (ncRNA) part of such datasets. We then survey the emerging role of long ncRNAs (lncRNAs) in the healthy and diseased brain transcriptome and describe the main current methods for computational modeling of gene networks. We propose accessible modular and pathway-oriented methods and guidelines for bioinformatics investigations of whole transcriptome next generation sequencing datasets. We finally present methods and databases for functional interpretations of lncRNAs and propose a simple heuristic approach to visualize and represent physical and functional interactions of the coding and non-coding components of the transcriptome. Integrating in a functional and integrated vision coding and ncRNA analyses is of utmost importance for current and future analyses of neurodegenerative transcriptomes.
Auxiliary subunits are non-conducting, modulatory components of the multi-protein ion channel complexes that underlie normal neuronal signaling. They interact with the pore-forming -subunits to modulate surface distribution, ion conductance, and channel gating properties. For the somatodendritic subthreshold A-type potassium (ISA) channel based on Kv4 -subunits, two types of auxiliary subunits have been extensively studied: Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) and dipeptidyl peptidase-like proteins (DPLPs). KChIPs are cytoplasmic calcium-binding proteins that interact with intracellular portions of the Kv4 subunits, whereas DPLPs are type II transmembrane proteins that associate with the Kv4 channel core. Both KChIPs and DPLPs genes contain multiple start sites that are used by various neuronal populations to drive the differential expression of functionally distinct N-terminal variants. In turn, these N-terminal variants generate tremendous functional diversity across the nervous system. Here, we focus our review on (1) the molecular mechanism underlying the unique properties of different N-terminal variants, (2) the shaping of native ISA properties by the concerted actions of KChIPs and DPLP variants, and (3) the surprising ways that KChIPs and DPLPs coordinate the activity of multiple channels to fine-tune neuronal excitability. Unlocking the unique contributions of different auxiliary subunit N-terminal variants may provide an important opportunity to develop novel targeted therapeutics to treat numerous neurological disorders.
Gene knockout by homologous recombination is a popular method to study gene functions in the mouse in vivo. However, its lack of temporal control has limited the interpretation of knockout studies because the complete elimination of a gene product often alters developmental processes, and can induce severe malformations or lethality. Conditional gene knockdown has emerged as a compelling alternative to gene knockout, an approach well-established in vitro but that remains challenging in vivo, especially in the adult brain. Here, we report a method for conditional and cell-specific gene knockdown in the mouse brain in vivo that combines Cre-mediated RNA interference (RNAi) with classical and lentivirus-mediated transgenesis. The method is based on the inducible expression of a silencing short hairpin RNA (shRNA) introduced in mice by lentivirus-mediated transgenesis, and on its activation by excision of a floxed stop EGFP reporter with an inducible Cre recombinase expressed in astrocytes or in neurons. This dual system should be of broad utility for comparative studies of gene functions in these two cell types in vivo.
Brain wiring is a highly intricate process in which trillions of neuronal connections are established. Its initial phase is particularly crucial in establishing the general framework of neuronal circuits. During this early step, differentiating neurons extend axons, which reach their target by navigating through a complex environment with extreme precision. Research in the past 20 years has unraveled a vast and complex array of chemotropic cues that guide the leading tip of axons, the growth cone, throughout its journey. Tight regulation of these cues, and of their receptors and signaling pathways, is necessary for the high degree of accuracy required during circuit formation. However, little is known about the nature of regulatory molecules or mechanisms fine-tuning axonal cue response. Here we review recent, and somewhat fragmented, research on the possibility that microRNAs (miRNAs) could be key fine-tuning regulatory molecules in axon guidance. miRNAs appear to shape long-range axon guidance, fasciculation and targeting. We also present several lines of evidence suggesting that miRNAs could have a compartmentalized and differential action at the cell soma, and within axons and growth cones.
Glial cells of Caenorhabditis elegans can modulate neuronal activity and behavior, which is the focus of this review. Initially, we provide an overview of neuroglial evolution, making a comparison between C. elegans glia and their genealogical counterparts. What follows is a brief discussion on C. elegans glia characteristics in terms of their exact numbers, germ layers origin, their necessity for proper development of sensory organs, and lack of their need for neuronal survival. The more specific roles that various glial cells have on neuron-based activity/behavior are succinctly presented. The cephalic sheath glia are important for development, maintenance and activity of central synapses, whereas the amphid glia seem to set the tone of sensory synapses; these glial cell types are ectoderm-derived. Mesoderm-derived Glial-Like cells in the nerve Ring (GLRs) appear to be a part of the circuit for production of motor movement of the worm anterior. Finally, we discuss tools and approaches utilized in studying C. elegans glia, which are assets available for this animal, making it an appealing model, not only in neurosciences, but in biology in general.
Neural circuits are typically maintained in a state of dynamic equilibrium by balanced synaptic excitation and inhibition. However, brain regions that are particularly susceptible to epilepsy may have evolved additional specialized mechanisms for inhibiting over-excitation. Here we identify one such possible mechanism in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of mice. Recently it was reported that some types of GABAergic interneurons can slowly integrate excitatory inputs until eventually they fire persistently in the absence of the original stimulus. This property, called persistent firing or retroaxonal barrage firing (BF), is of unknown physiological importance. We show that two common types of interneurons in cortical regions, neurogliaform (NG) cells and fast-spiking (FS) cells, are unique in exhibiting BF in acute slices (~85 and ~23% success rate for induction, respectively). BF can also be induced in vivo, although the success rate for induction is lower (~60% in NG cells). In slices, BF could reliably be triggered by trains of excitatory synaptic input, as well as by exposure to proconvulsant bath solutions (elevated extracellular K(+), blockade of GABAA receptors). Using pair recordings in slices, we confirmed that barrage-firing NG cells can produce synaptic inhibition of nearby pyramidal neurons, and that this inhibition outlasts the original excitation. The ubiquity of NG and FS cells, together with their ability to fire persistently following excessive excitation, suggests that these interneurons may function as cortical sentinels, imposing an activity-dependent brake on undesirable neuronal hyperexcitability.

Although astrogliosis and microglia activation are characteristic features of multiple sclerosis (MS) and other central nervous system (CNS) lesions the exact functions of these events are not fully understood. Animal models help to understand the complex interplay between the different cell types of the CNS and uncover general mechanisms of damage and repair of myelin sheaths. The so called cuprizone model is a toxic model of demyelination in the CNS white and gray matter, which lacks an autoimmune component. Cuprizone induces apoptosis of mature oligodendrocytes that leads to a robust demyelination and profound activation of both astrocytes and microglia with regional heterogeneity between different white and gray matter regions. Although not suitable to study autoimmune mediated demyelination, this model is extremely helpful to elucidate basic cellular and molecular mechanisms during de- and particularly remyelination independently of interactions with peripheral immune cells. Phagocytosis and removal of damaged myelin seems to be one of the major roles of microglia in this model and it is well known that removal of myelin debris is a prerequisite of successful remyelination. Furthermore, microglia provide several signals that support remyelination. The role of astrocytes during de- and remyelination is not well defined. Both supportive and destructive functions have been suggested. Using the cuprizone model we could demonstrate that there is an important crosstalk between astrocytes and microglia. In this review we focus on the role of glial reactions and interaction in the cuprizone model. Advantages and limitations of as well as its potential therapeutic relevance for the human disease MS are critically discussed in comparison to other animal models.
High impulse rate in afferent nerves is a common feature in many sensory systems that serve to accommodate a wide dynamic range. However, the first stage of integration should be endowed with specific properties that enable efficient handling of the incoming information. In elasmobranches, the afferent nerve originating from the ampullae of Lorenzini targets specific neurons located at the Dorsal Octavolateral Nucleus (DON), the first stage of integration in the electroreception system. Using intracellular recordings in an isolated brainstem preparation from the shark we analyze the properties of this afferent pathway. We found that stimulating the afferent nerve activates a mixture of excitatory and inhibitory synapses mediated by AMPA-like and GABAA receptors, respectively. The excitatory synapses that are extremely efficient in activating the postsynaptic neurons display unusual voltage dependence, enabling them to operate as a current source. The inhibitory input is powerful enough to completely eliminate the excitatory action of the afferent nerve but is ineffective regarding other excitatory inputs. These observations can be explained by the location and efficiency of the synapses. We conclude that the afferent nerve provides powerful and reliable excitatory input as well as a feed-forward inhibitory input, which is partially presynaptic in origin. These results question the cellular location within the DON where cancelation of expected incoming signals occurs.
Presynaptic assembly involves the specialization of a patch of axonal membrane into a complex structure that supports synaptic vesicle exocytosis and neurotransmitter release. In mammalian neurons, presynaptic assembly is widely studied in a co-culture assay, where a synaptogenic cue expressed at the surface of a heterologous cell induces presynaptic differentiation in a contacting axon. This assay has led to the discovery of numerous synaptogenic proteins, but has not been used to probe neuronal mechanisms regulating presynaptic induction. The identification of regulatory pathways that fine-tune presynaptic assembly is hindered by the lack of adequate tools to quantitatively image this process. Here, we introduce an image-processing algorithm that identifies presynaptic clusters in mammalian co-cultures and extracts a range of synapse-specific parameters. Using this software, we assessed the intrinsic variability of this synaptic induction assay and probed the effect of eight neuronal microRNAs on presynaptic assembly. Our analysis revealed a novel role for miR-27b in augmenting the density of presynaptic clusters. Our software is applicable to a wide range of synaptic induction protocols (including spontaneous synaptogenesis observed in neuron cultures) and is a valuable tool to determine the subtle impact of disease-associated genes on presynaptic assembly.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that display a triad of core behavioral deficits including restricted interests, often accompanied by repetitive behavior, deficits in language and communication, and an inability to engage in reciprocal social interactions. ASD is among the most heritable disorders but is not a simple disorder with a singular pathology and has a rather complex etiology. It is interesting to note that perturbations in synaptic growth, development, and stability underlie a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders, including ASD, schizophrenia, epilepsy, and intellectual disability. Biological characterization of an increasing repertoire of synaptic mutants in various model organisms indicates synaptic dysfunction as causal in the pathophysiology of ASD. Our understanding of the genes and genetic pathways that contribute toward the formation, stabilization, and maintenance of functional synapses coupled with an in-depth phenotypic analysis of the cellular and behavioral characteristics is therefore essential to unraveling the pathogenesis of these disorders. In this review, we discuss the genetic aspects of ASD emphasizing on the well conserved set of genes and genetic pathways implicated in this disorder, many of which contribute to synapse assembly and maintenance across species. We also review how fundamental research using animal models is providing key insights into the various facets of human ASD.
The majority of intravital studies on brain tumor in living animal so far rely on dual color imaging. We describe here a multiphoton imaging protocol to dynamically characterize the interactions between six cellular components in a living mouse. We applied this methodology to a clinically relevant glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) model designed in reporter mice with targeted cell populations labeled by fluorescent proteins of different colors. This model permitted us to make non-invasive longitudinal and multi-scale observations of cell-to-cell interactions. We provide examples of such 5D (x,y,z,t,color) images acquired on a daily basis from volumes of interest, covering most of the mouse parietal cortex at subcellular resolution. Spectral deconvolution allowed us to accurately separate each cell population as well as some components of the extracellular matrix. The technique represents a powerful tool for investigating how tumor progression is influenced by the interactions of tumor cells with host cells and the extracellular matrix micro-environment. It will be especially valuable for evaluating neuro-oncological drug efficacy and target specificity. The imaging protocol provided here can be easily translated to other mouse models of neuropathologies, and should also be of fundamental interest for investigations in other areas of systems biology.
Abnormal motor behaviors in Parkinson's disease (PD) result from striatal dysfunction due to an imbalance between dopamine and glutamate transmissions that are integrated by dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32). c-Abelson tyrosine kinase (c-Abl) phosphorylates cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) at Tyr15 to increase the activity of Cdk5, which reduces the efficacy of dopaminergic signaling by phosphorylating DARPP-32 at Thr75 in the striatum. Here, we report that in the mouse striatum, a novel c-Abl inhibitor, nilotinib (AMN107), inhibits phosphorylation of both Cdk5 at Tyr15 and DARPP-32 at Thr75, which is negatively regulated by dopamine receptor activation through a D2 receptor-mediated mechanism. Like a D2-agonist, nilotinib synergizes with a D1-agonist for inducing striatal c-Fos expression. Moreover, systemic administration of nilotinib normalizes striatal motor behaviors in a mouse model of PD induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. These findings suggest that nilotinib could possibly serve as a new and alternative agent for treating PD motor symptoms.

By coupling laser capture microdissection to nanoCAGE technology and next-generation sequencing we have identified the genome-wide collection of active promoters in the mouse Main Olfactory Epithelium (MOE). Transcription start sites (TSSs) for the large majority of Olfactory Receptors (ORs) have been previously mapped increasing our understanding of their promoter architecture. Here we show that in our nanoCAGE libraries of the mouse MOE we detect a large number of tags mapped in loci hosting Type-1 and Type-2 Vomeronasal Receptors genes (V1Rs and V2Rs). These loci also show a massive expression of Long Interspersed Nuclear Elements (LINEs). We have validated the expression of selected receptors detected by nanoCAGE with in situ hybridization, RT-PCR and qRT-PCR. This work extends the repertory of receptors capable of sensing chemical signals in the MOE, suggesting intriguing interplays between MOE and VNO for pheromone processing and positioning transcribed LINEs as candidate regulatory RNAs for VRs expression.
Granule cells (GCs) in the dentate gyrus are generated mainly postnatally. Between embryonic day 10 and 14, neural precursors migrate from the primary dentate matrix to the dentate gyrus where they differentiate into neurons. Neurogenesis reaches a peak at the end of the first postnatal week and it is completed at the end of the first postnatal month. This process continues at a reduced rate throughout life. Interestingly, immediately after birth, GCs exhibit a clear GABAergic phenotype. Only later they integrate the classical glutamatergic trisynaptic hippocampal circuit. Here, whole cell patch clamp recordings, in current clamp mode, were performed from immature GCs, intracellularly loaded with biocytin (in hippocampal slices from P0 to P3 old rats) in order to compare their morphological characteristics with their electrophysiological properties. The vast majority of GCs were very immature with small somata, few dendritic branches terminating with small varicosities and growth cones. In spite of their immaturity their axons reached often the cornu ammonis 3 area. Immature GCs generated, upon membrane depolarization, either rudimentary sodium spikes or more clear overshooting action potentials that fired repetitively. They exhibited also low threshold calcium spikes. In addition, most spiking neurons showed spontaneous synchronized network activity, reminiscent of giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) generated in the hippocampus by the synergistic action of glutamate and GABA, both depolarizing and excitatory. This early synchronized activity, absent during adult neurogenesis, may play a crucial role in the refinement of local neuronal circuits within the developing dentate gyrus.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) from the subventricular zone (SVZ) have been indicated as a source of new oligodendrocytes to use in regenerative medicine for myelin pathologies. Indeed, NSCs are multipotent cells that can self-renew and differentiate into all neural cell types of the central nervous system. In normal conditions, SVZ cells are poorly oligodendrogenic, nevertheless their oligodendrogenic potential is boosted following demyelination. Importantly, progressive restriction into the oligodendrocyte fate is specified by extrinsic and intrinsic factors, endocannabinoids being one of these factors. Although a role for endocannabinoids in oligodendrogenesis has already been foreseen, selective agonists and antagonists of cannabinoids receptors produce severe adverse side effects. Herein, we show that hemopressin (Hp), a modulator of CB1 receptors, increased oligodendroglial differentiation in SVZ neural stem/progenitor cell cultures derived from neonatal mice. The original results presented in this work suggest that Hp and derivates may be of potential interest for the development of future strategies to treat demyelinating diseases.
Axonal injury in the optic nerve is associated with retinal ganglion cell (RGC) degeneration and irreversible loss of vision. However, inflammatory stimulation (IS) by intravitreal injection of Pam3Cys transforms RGCs into an active regenerative state enabling these neurons to survive injury and to regenerate axons into the injured optic nerve. Although morphological changes have been well studied, the functional correlates of RGCs transformed either into a de- or regenerating state at a sub-cellular level remain unclear. In the current study, we investigated the signal propagation in single intraretinal axons as well as characteristic activity features of RGCs in a naive, a degenerative or a regenerative state in ex vivo retinae 1 week after either optic nerve cut alone (ONC) or additional IS (ONC + IS). Recordings of single RGCs using high-density microelectrode arrays demonstrate that the mean intraretinal axonal conduction velocity significantly decreased within the first week after ONC. In contrast, when ONC was accompanied by regenerative Pam3Cys treatment the mean intraretinal velocity was undistinguishable from control RGCs, indicating a protective effect on the proximal axon. Spontaneous RGC activity decreased for the two most numerous RGC types (ON- and OFF-sustained cells) within one post-operative week, but did not significantly increase in RGCs after IS. The analysis of light-induced activity revealed that RGCs in ONC animals respond on average later and with fewer spikes than control RGCs. IS significantly improved the responsiveness of the two studied RGC types. These results show that the transformation into a regenerative state by IS preserves, at least transiently, the physiological functional properties of injured RGCs.
Neuronal activity results in long lasting changes in synaptic structure and function by regulating mRNA translation in dendrites. These activity dependent events yield the synthesis of proteins known to be important for synaptic modifications and diverse forms of synaptic plasticity. Worthy of note, there is accumulating evidence that the eukaryotic Elongation Factor 2 Kinase (eEF2K)/eukaryotic Elongation Factor 2 (eEF2) pathway may be strongly involved in this process. Upon activation, eEF2K phosphorylates and thereby inhibits eEF2, resulting in a dramatic reduction of mRNA translation. eEF2K is activated by elevated levels of calcium and binding of Calmodulin (CaM), hence its alternative name calcium/CaM-dependent protein kinase III (CaMKIII). In dendrites, this process depends on glutamate signaling and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activation. Interestingly, it has been shown that eEF2K can be activated in dendrites by metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 1/5 signaling, as well. Therefore, neuronal activity can induce local proteomic changes at the postsynapse by altering eEF2K activity. Well-established targets of eEF2K in dendrites include brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc), the alpha subunit of calcium/CaM-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), and microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B), all of which have well-known functions in different forms of synaptic plasticity. In this review we will give an overview of the involvement of the eEF2K/eEF2 pathway at dendrites in regulating the translation of dendritic mRNA in the context of altered NMDAR- and neuronal activity, and diverse forms of synaptic plasticity, such as metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent-long-term depression (mGluR-LTD). For this, we draw on studies carried out both in vitro and in vivo.
In the developing cerebral cortex, the marginal zone (MZ), consisting of early-generated neurons such as Cajal-Retzius cells, plays an important role in cell migration and lamination. There is accumulating evidence of widespread excitatory neurotransmission mediated by -aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the MZ. Cajal-Retzius cells express not only GABAA receptors but also 2/ subunits of glycine receptors, and exhibit glycine receptor-mediated depolarization due to high [Cl(-)]i. However, the physiological roles of glycine receptors and their endogenous agonists during neurotransmission in the MZ are yet to be elucidated. To address this question, we performed optical imaging from the MZ using the voltage-sensitive dye JPW1114 on tangential neocortical slices of neonatal rats. A single electrical stimulus evoked an action-potential-dependent optical signal that spread radially over the MZ. The amplitude of the signal was not affected by glutamate receptor blockers, but was suppressed by either GABAA or glycine receptor antagonists. Combined application of both antagonists nearly abolished the signal. Inhibition of Na(+), K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter by 20 M bumetanide reduced the signal, indicating that this transporter contributes to excitation. Analysis of the interstitial fluid obtained by microdialysis from tangential neocortical slices with high-performance liquid chromatography revealed that GABA and taurine, but not glycine or glutamate, were released in the MZ in response to the electrical stimulation. The ambient release of taurine was reduced by the addition of a voltage-sensitive Na(+) channel blocker. Immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy indicated that taurine was stored both in Cajal-Retzius and non-Cajal-Retzius cells in the MZ, but was not localized in presynaptic structures. Our results suggest that activity-dependent non-synaptic release of endogenous taurine facilitates excitatory neurotransmission through activation of glycine receptors in the MZ.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are emerging as master regulators of gene expression in the nervous system where they contribute not only to brain development but also to neuronal network homeostasis and plasticity. Their function is the result of a cascade of events including miRNA biogenesis, target recognition, and translation inhibition. It has been suggested that miRNAs are major switches of the genome owing to their ability to regulate multiple genes at the same time. This regulation is essential for normal neuronal activity and, when affected, can lead to drastic pathological conditions. As an example, we illustrate how deregulation of miRNAs can affect neuronal plasticity leading to chronic pain. The origin of pain and its dual role as a key physiological function and a debilitating disease has been highly debated until now. The incidence of chronic pain is estimated to be 20-25% worldwide, thus making it a public health problem. Chronic pain can be considered as a form of maladaptive plasticity. Long-lasting modifications develop as a result of global changes in gene expression, and are thus likely to be controlled by miRNAs. Here, we review the literature on miRNAs and their targets responsible for maladaptive plasticity in chronic pain conditions. In addition, we conduct a retrospective analysis of miRNA expression data published for different pain models, taking into account recent progress in our understanding of the role of miRNAs in neuronal plasticity.
The neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) include senile plaques of -amyloid (A) peptides (a cleavage product of the Amyloid Precursor Protein, or APP) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) of hyperphosphorylated Tau protein assembled in paired helical filaments (PHF). NFT pathology is important since it correlates with the degree of cognitive impairment in AD. Only a small proportion of AD is due to genetic variants, whereas the large majority of cases (~99%) is late onset and sporadic in origin. The cause of sporadic AD is likely to be multifactorial, with external factors interacting with biological or genetic susceptibilities to accelerate the manifestation of the disease. Insulin dysfunction, manifested by diabetes mellitus (DM) might be such factor, as there is extensive data from epidemiological studies suggesting that DM is associated with an increased relative risk for AD. Type 1 diabetes (T1DM) and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) are known to affect multiple cognitive functions in patients. In this context, understanding the effects of diabetes on Tau pathogenesis is important since Tau pathology show a strong relationship to dementia in AD, and to memory loss in normal aging and mild cognitive impairment. Here, we reviewed preclinical studies that link insulin dysfunction to Tau protein pathogenesis, one of the major pathological hallmarks of AD. We found more than 30 studies reporting Tau phosphorylation in a mouse or rat model of insulin dysfunction. We also payed attention to potential sources of artifacts, such as hypothermia and anesthesia, that were demonstrated to results in Tau hyperphosphorylation and could major confounding experimental factors. We found that very few studies reported the temperature of the animals, and only a handful did not use anesthesia. Overall, most published studies showed that insulin dysfunction can promote Tau hyperphosphorylation and pathology, both directly and indirectly, through hypothermia.
In the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), the inhibitory strength of chloride (Cl(-))-permeable GABAA and glycine receptors (GABAAR and GlyR) depends on the intracellular Cl(-) concentration ([Cl(-)]i). Lowering [Cl(-)]i enhances inhibition, whereas raising [Cl(-)]i facilitates neuronal activity. A neuron's basal level of [Cl(-)]i, as well as its Cl(-) extrusion capacity, is critically dependent on the activity of the electroneutral K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter KCC2, a member of the SLC12 cation-Cl(-) cotransporter (CCC) family. KCC2 deficiency compromises neuronal migration, formation and the maturation of GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic connections, and results in network hyperexcitability and seizure activity. Several neurological disorders including multiple epilepsy subtypes, neuropathic pain, and schizophrenia, as well as various insults such as trauma and ischemia, are associated with significant decreases in the Cl(-) extrusion capacity of KCC2 that result in increases of [Cl(-)]i and the subsequent hyperexcitability of neuronal networks. Accordingly, identifying the key upstream molecular mediators governing the functional regulation of KCC2, and modifying these signaling pathways with small molecules, might constitute a novel neurotherapeutic strategy for multiple diseases. Here, we discuss recent advances in the understanding of the mechanisms regulating KCC2 activity, and of the role these mechanisms play in neuronal Cl(-) homeostasis and GABAergic neurotransmission. As KCC2 mediates electroneutral transport, the experimental recording of its activity constitutes an important research challenge; we therefore also, provide an overview of the different methodological approaches utilized to monitor function of KCC2 in both physiological and pathological conditions.
Granule cells of the dentate gyrus receive cortical information and they transform and transmit this code to the CA3 area via their axons, the mossy fibers (MFs). Structural and functional complexity of this network has been extensively studied at various organizational levels. This review is focused on the anatomical and physiological properties of the MF system. We will discuss the mechanism by which dentate granule cells process signals from single action potentials (APs), short bursts and longer stimuli. Various parameters of synaptic interactions at different target cells such as quantal transmission, short- and long-term plasticity (LTP) will be summarized. Different types of synaptic contacts formed by MFs have unique sets of rules for information processing during different rates of granule cell activity. We will investigate the complex interactions between key determinants of information transfer between the dentate gyrus and the CA3 area of the hippocampus.
Rods are capable of greater slow release than cones contributing to overall slower release kinetics. Slow release in rods involves Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR). By impairing release from ribbons, we found that unlike cones where release occurs entirely at ribbon-style active zones, slow release from rods occurs mostly at ectopic, non-ribbon sites. To investigate the role of CICR in ribbon and non-ribbon release from rods, we used total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy as a tool for visualizing terminals of isolated rods loaded with fluorescent Ca(2+) indicator dyes and synaptic vesicles loaded with dextran-conjugated pH-sensitive rhodamine. We found that rather than simply facilitating release, activation of CICR by ryanodine triggered release directly in rods, independent of plasma membrane Ca(2+) channel activation. Ryanodine-evoked release occurred mostly at non-ribbon sites and release evoked by sustained depolarization at non-ribbon sites was mostly due to CICR. Unlike release at ribbon-style active zones, non-ribbon release did not occur at fixed locations. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-tracker dye in rod terminals showed that ER extends continuously from synapse to soma. Release of Ca(2+) from terminal ER by lengthy depolarization did not significantly deplete Ca(2+) from ER in the perikaryon. Collectively, these results indicate that CICR-triggered release at non-ribbon sites is a major mechanism for maintaining vesicle release from rods and that CICR in terminals may be sustained by diffusion of Ca(2+) through ER from other parts of the cell.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is an inherited form of intellectual disability and autism. Among other symptoms, FXS patients demonstrate abnormalities in sensory processing and communication. Clinical, behavioral, and electrophysiological studies consistently show auditory hypersensitivity in humans with FXS. Consistent with observations in humans, the Fmr1 KO mouse model of FXS also shows evidence of altered auditory processing and communication deficiencies. A well-known and commonly used phenotype in pre-clinical studies of FXS is audiogenic seizures. In addition, increased acoustic startle response is seen in the Fmr1 KO mice. In vivo electrophysiological recordings indicate hyper-excitable responses, broader frequency tuning, and abnormal spectrotemporal processing in primary auditory cortex of Fmr1 KO mice. Thus, auditory hyper-excitability is a robust, reliable, and translatable biomarker in Fmr1 KO mice. Abnormal auditory evoked responses have been used as outcome measures to test therapeutics in FXS patients. Given that similarly abnormal responses are present in Fmr1 KO mice suggests that cellular mechanisms can be addressed. Sensory cortical deficits are relatively more tractable from a mechanistic perspective than more complex social behaviors that are typically studied in autism and FXS. The focus of this review is to bring together clinical, functional, and structural studies in humans with electrophysiological and behavioral studies in mice to make the case that auditory hypersensitivity provides a unique opportunity to integrate molecular, cellular, circuit level studies with behavioral outcomes in the search for therapeutics for FXS and other autism spectrum disorders.
Rett Syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with intellectual disability, mainly caused by loss-of-function mutations in the MECP2 gene. RTT brains display decreased neuronal size and dendritic arborization possibly caused by either a developmental failure or a deficit in the maintenance of dendritic arbor structure. To distinguish between these two hypotheses, the development of Mecp2-knockout mouse hippocampal neurons was analyzed in vitro. Since a staging system for the in vitro development of mouse neurons was lacking, mouse and rat hippocampal neurons development was compared between 1-15 days in vitro (DIV) leading to a 6-stage model for both species. Mecp2-knockout hippocampal neurons displayed reduced growth of dendritic branches from stage 4 (DIV4) onwards. At stages 5-6 (DIV9-15), synapse number was lowered in Mecp2-knockout neurons, suggesting increased synapse elimination. These results point to both a developmental and a maintenance setback affecting the final shape and function of neurons in RTT.
Calcium/Calmodulin-dependent kinase type II (CaMKII) is essential for various forms of synaptic plasticity. The predominant - and CaMKII isoforms have both been shown to contribute to specific forms of plasticity at excitatory synapses, but little is known about their functions at inhibitory synapses. Here we investigated the role of both isoforms in long-term potentiation of the inhibitory molecular layer interneuron to Purkinje cell synapse (MLI-PC iLTP) upon climbing fiber (CF) stimulation. We demonstrate that deleting either the - or CaMKII isoform affected MLI-PC iLTP. In the presence of the PP2B blocker cyclosporin A, CF stimulation elicited iLTP in Camk2b (-) (/) (-) mice, but not in Camk2a (-) (/) (-) mice. Moreover, co-activation of the MLIs and CF suppressed iLTP in wild-type mice through activation of GABAB-receptors, whereas it evoked iLTP in Camk2b (-) (/) (-). This reversal of the effect of CaMKII activity in Camk2b (-) (/) (-) mutants upon co-activation did not critically involve protein kinase A, but depended on calcium release from internal stores. Our results indicate that - and CaMKII isoforms in Purkinje cells can be differentially activated and serve distinct roles in controlling iLTP. We propose that the CaMKII holo-enzyme may be selectively activated by various GABAB-mediated pathways and that the presence of the CaMKII isoform determines their impact on inhibitory plasticity.
P2X receptors are a family of trimeric ion channels that are gated by extracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP). These receptors have long been a subject of intense research interest by virtue of their vital role in mediating the rapid and direct effects of extracellular ATP on membrane potential and cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration, which in turn underpin the ability of ATP to regulate a diverse range of clinically significant physiological functions, including those associated with the cardiovascular, sensory, and immune systems. An important aspect of an ion channel's function is, of course, the means by which it transports ions across the biological membrane. A concerted effort by investigators over the last two decades has culminated in significant advances in our understanding of how P2X receptors conduct the inward flux of Na(+) and Ca(2+) in response to binding by ATP. However, this work has relied heavily on results from current recordings of P2X receptors altered by site-directed mutagenesis. In the absence of a 3-dimensional channel structure, this prior work provided only a vague and indirect appreciation of the relationship between structure, ion selectivity and flux. The recent publication of the crystal structures for both the closed and open channel conformations of the zebrafish P2X4 receptor has thus proved a significant boon, and has provided an important opportunity to overview the amassed functional data in the context of a working 3-dimensional model of a P2X receptor. In this paper, we will attempt to reconcile the existing functional data regarding ion permeation through P2X receptors with the available crystal structure data, highlighting areas of concordance and discordance as appropriate.
Over the last decade, the importance of astrocyte-neuron communication in neuronal development and synaptic plasticity has become increasingly clear. Since neuron-astrocyte interactions represent highly dynamic and reciprocal processes, we hypothesized that many astrocyte genes may be regulated as a consequence of their interactions with maturing neurons. In order to identify such neuron-responsive astrocyte genes in vitro, we sought to establish an expedited technique for separation of neurons from co-cultured astrocytes. Our newly established method makes use of cold jet, which exploits different adhesion characteristics of subpopulations of cells (Jirsova etal., 1997), and is rapid, performed under ice-cold conditions and avoids protease-mediated isolation of astrocytes or time-consuming centrifugation, yielding intact astrocyte mRNA with approximately 90% of neuronal RNA removed. Using this purification method, we executed genome-wide profiling in which RNA derived from astrocyte-only cultures was compared with astrocyte RNA derived from differentiating neuron-astrocyte co-cultures. Data analysis determined that many astrocytic mRNAs and biological processes are regulated by neuronal interaction. Our results validate the cold jet as an efficient method to separate astrocytes from neurons in co-culture, and reveals that neurons induce robust gene-expression changes in co-cultured astrocytes.
Glutamate is the main excitatory transmitter in the human brain. Drugs that affect the glutamatergic signaling will alter neuronal excitability. Ethanol inhibits glutamate receptors. We examined the expression level of glutamate receptor subunit mRNAs in human post-mortem samples from alcoholics and compared the results to brain samples from control subjects. RNA from hippocampal dentate gyrus (HP-DG), orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), and dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex (DL-PFC) samples from 21 controls and 19 individuals with chronic alcohol dependence were included in the study. Total RNA was assayed using quantitative RT-PCR. Out of the 16 glutamate receptor subunits, mRNAs encoding two AMPA [2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazol-4-yl)propanoic acid] receptor subunits GluA2 and GluA3; three kainate receptor subunits GluK2, GluK3 and GluK5 and five NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor subunits GluN1, GluN2A, GluN2C, GluN2D, and GluN3A were significantly increased in the HP-DG region in alcoholics. In the OFC, mRNA encoding the NMDA receptor subunit GluN3A was increased, whereas in the DL-PFC, no differences in mRNA levels were observed. Our laboratory has previously shown that the expression of genes encoding inhibitory GABA-A receptors is altered in the HP-DG and OFC of alcoholics (Jin et al., 2011). Whether the changes in one neurotransmitter system drives changes in the other or if they change independently is currently not known. The results demonstrate that excessive long-term alcohol consumption is associated with altered expression of genes encoding glutamate receptors in a brain region-specific manner. It is an intriguing possibility that genetic predisposition to alcoholism may contribute to these gene expression changes.
P2X receptors are ATP-gated cation channels consisting of three subunits that are mutually intertwined and form an upper, central, and extracellular vestibule with three lateral portals and the channel pore. Here we used cysteine and alanine scanning mutagenesis of the rat P2X4R receptor V47-V61 and K326-N338 sequences to study structural and functional properties of extracellular vestibule during gating. Cysteine mutants were used to test the accessibility of these residue side chains to cadmium during closed-open-desensitized transitions, whereas alanine mutants served as controls. This study revealed the accessibility of residues E51, T57, S59, V61, K326, and M336 to cadmium in channels undergoing a transition from a closed-to-open state and the accessibility of residues V47, G53, D331, I332, I333, T335, I337, and N338 in channels undergoing a transition from an open-to-desensitized state; residues E56 and K329 were accessible during both transitions. The effect of cadmium on channel gating was stimulatory in all reactive V47-V61 mutants and inhibitory in the majority of reactive K326-N338 mutants. The rat P2X4 receptor homology model suggests that residues affected by cadmium in the closed-to-open transition were located within the lumen of the extracellular vestibule and toward the central vestibule; however, the residues affected by cadmium in the open-to-desensitized state were located at the bottom of the vestibule near the pore. Analysis of the model assumed that there is ion access to extracellular and central vestibules through lateral ports when the channel is closed, with residues above the first transmembrane domain being predominantly responsible for ion uptake. Upon receptor activation, there is passage of ions toward the residues located on the upper region of the second transmembrane domain, followed by permeation through the gate region.
Tonic GABAergic inhibition regulates neuronal excitability and has been implicated to be involved in both neurological and psychiatric diseases. We have previously shown that the endogenous peptide antisecretory factor (AF) decreases phasic GABAergic inhibition onto pyramidal CA1 neurons. In the present study, using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we investigated the mechanisms behind this disinhibition of CA1 pyramidal neurons by AF. We found that application of AF to acute rat hippocampal slices resulted in a reduction of the frequency, but not of the amplitude, of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) in CA1 pyramidal neurons. Miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs), recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX), were however not affected by AF, neither in CA1 pyramidal cells, nor in stratum radiatum interneurons. Instead, AF caused an increase of the tonic GABAA current in stratum radiatum interneurons, leaving the tonic GABAergic transmission in CA1 pyramidal cells unaffected. These results show that the endogenous peptide AF enhances tonic, but not phasic, GABAergic signaling in CA1 stratum radiatum interneurons, without affecting tonic GABAergic signaling in CA1 pyramidal neurons. We suggest that this increased tonic GABAergic signaling in GABAergic interneurons could be a mechanism for the AF-mediated disinhibition of pyramidal neurons.
Diverse and flexible cortical functions rely on the ability of neural circuits to perform multiple types of neuronal computations. GABAergic inhibitory interneurons significantly contribute to this task by regulating the balance of activity, synaptic integration, spiking, synchrony, and oscillation in a neural ensemble. GABAergic interneurons display a high degree of cellular diversity in morphology, physiology, connectivity, and gene expression. A considerable number of subtypes of GABAergic interneurons diversify modes of cortical inhibition, enabling various types of information processing in the cortex. Thus, comprehensively understanding fate specification, circuit assembly, and physiological function of GABAergic interneurons is a key to elucidate the principles of cortical wiring and function. Recent advances in genetically encoded molecular tools have made a breakthrough to systematically study cortical circuitry at the molecular, cellular, circuit, and whole animal levels. However, the biggest obstacle to fully applying the power of these to analysis of GABAergic circuits was that there were no efficient and reliable methods to express them in subtypes of GABAergic interneurons. Here, I first summarize cortical interneuron diversity and current understanding of mechanisms, by which distinct classes of GABAergic interneurons are generated. I then review recent development in genetically encoded molecular tools for neural circuit research, and genetic targeting of GABAergic interneuron subtypes, particularly focusing on our recent effort to develop and characterize Cre/CreER knockin lines. Finally, I highlight recent success in genetic targeting of chandelier cells, the most unique and distinct GABAergic interneuron subtype, and discuss what kind of questions need to be addressed to understand development and function of cortical inhibitory circuits.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease manifested by progressive muscle atrophy and paralysis due to the loss of upper and lower motoneurons (MN). Spasticity appears in ALS patients leading to further disabling consequences. Loss of the inhibitory tone induced by downregulation of the potassium chloride cotransporter 2 (KCC2) in MN has been proposed to importantly contribute to the spastic behavior after spinal cord injury (SCI). The aim of the present study was to test whether the alterations in the expression of KCC2 are linked to the appearance of spasticity in the SOD(G93A) ALS murine model. We compared SOD(G93A) mice to wild type mice subjected to SCI to mimic the spinal MN disconnection from motor descending pathways, and to sciatic nerve lesion to mimic the loss of MN connectivity to muscle. Electrophysiological results show that loss of motor function is observed at presymptomatic stage (8 weeks) in SOD(G93A) mice but hyperreflexia and spasticity do not appear until a late stage (16 weeks). However, KCC2 was not downregulated despite MN suffered disconnection both from muscles and upper MNs. Further experiments revealed decreased gephyrin expression, as a general marker of inhibitory systems, accompanied by a reduction in the number of Renshaw interneurons. Moreover, 5-HT fibers were increased in the ventral horn of the lumbar spinal cord at late stage of disease progression in SOD1(G93A) mice. Taken together, the present results indicate that spasticity appears late in the ALS model, and may be mediated by a decrease in inhibitory interneurons and an increase of 5-HT transmission, while the absence of down-regulation of KCC2 could rather indicate an inability of MNs to respond to insults.
Given that the genetic risk for schizophrenia is highly polygenic and the effect sizes, even for rare or de novo events, are modest at best, it has been suggested that multiple biological pathways are likely to be involved in the etiopathogenesis of the disease. Most efforts in understanding the cellular basis of schizophrenia have followed a &quot;neuron-centric&quot; approach, focusing on alterations in neurotransmitter systems and synapse cytoarchitecture. However, multiple lines of evidence coming from genetics and systems biology approaches suggest that apart from neurons, oligodendrocytes and potentially other glia are affected from schizophrenia risk loci. Neurobiological abnormalities linked with genetic association signal could identify abnormalities that are more likely to be primary, versus environmentally induced changes or downstream events. Here, we summarize genetic data that support the involvement of oligodendrocytes in schizophrenia, providing additional evidence for a causal role with the disease. Given the undeniable evidence of both neuronal and glial abnormalities in schizophrenia, we propose a neuro-glial model that invokes abnormalities at the node of Ranvier as a functional unit in the etiopathogenesis of the disease.

Belief revision is the key change mechanism underlying the psychological intervention known as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). It both motivates and reinforces new behavior. In this review we analyze and apply a novel approach to this process based on AGM theory of belief revision, named after its proponents, Carlos Alchourrn, Peter Grdenfors and David Makinson. AGM is a set-theoretical model. We reconceptualize it as describing a non-linear, dynamical system that occurs within a semantic space, which can be represented as a phase plane comprising all of the brain's attentional, cognitive, affective and physiological resources. Triggering events, such as anxiety-producing or depressing situations in the real world, or their imaginal equivalents, mobilize these assets so they converge on an equilibrium point. A preference function then evaluates and integrates evidentiary data associated with individual beliefs, selecting some of them and comprising them into a belief set, which is a metastable state. Belief sets evolve in time from one metastable state to another. In the phase space, this evolution creates a heteroclinic channel. AGM regulates this process and characterizes the outcome at each equilibrium point. Its objective is to define the necessary and sufficient conditions for belief revision by simultaneously minimizing the set of new beliefs that have to be adopted, and the set of old beliefs that have to be discarded or reformulated. Using AGM, belief revision can be modeled using three (and only three) fundamental syntactical operations performed on belief sets, which are expansion; revision; and contraction. Expansion is like adding a new belief without changing any old ones. Revision is like adding a new belief and changing old, inconsistent ones. Contraction is like changing an old belief without adding any new ones. We provide operationalized examples of this process in action.
Comparing networks in neuroscience is hard, because the topological properties of a given network are necessarily dependent on the number of edges in that network. This problem arises in the analysis of both weighted and unweighted networks. The term density is often used in this context, in order to refer to the mean edge weight of a weighted network, or to the number of edges in an unweighted one. Comparing families of networks is therefore statistically difficult because differences in topology are necessarily associated with differences in density. In this review paper, we consider this problem from two different perspectives, which include (i) the construction of summary networks, such as how to compute and visualize the summary network from a sample of network-valued data points; and (ii) how to test for topological differences, when two families of networks also exhibit significant differences in density. In the first instance, we show that the issue of summarizing a family of networks can be conducted by either adopting a mass-univariate approach, which produces a statistical parametric network (SPN). In the second part of this review, we then highlight the inherent problems associated with the comparison of topological functions of families of networks that differ in density. In particular, we show that a wide range of topological summaries, such as global efficiency and network modularity are highly sensitive to differences in density. Moreover, these problems are not restricted to unweighted metrics, as we demonstrate that the same issues remain present when considering the weighted versions of these metrics. We conclude by encouraging caution, when reporting such statistical comparisons, and by emphasizing the importance of constructing summary networks.
In 1943 McCulloch and Pitts suggested that the brain is composed of reliable logic-gates similar to the logic at the core of today's computers. This framework had a limited impact on neuroscience, since neurons exhibit far richer dynamics. Here we propose a new experimentally corroborated paradigm in which the truth tables of the brain's logic-gates are time dependent, i.e., dynamic logic-gates (DLGs). The truth tables of the DLGs depend on the history of their activity and the stimulation frequencies of their input neurons. Our experimental results are based on a procedure where conditioned stimulations were enforced on circuits of neurons embedded within a large-scale network of cortical cells in-vitro. We demonstrate that the underlying biological mechanism is the unavoidable increase of neuronal response latencies to ongoing stimulations, which imposes a non-uniform gradual stretching of network delays. The limited experimental results are confirmed and extended by simulations and theoretical arguments based on identical neurons with a fixed increase of the neuronal response latency per evoked spike. We anticipate our results to lead to better understanding of the suitability of this computational paradigm to account for the brain's functionalities and will require the development of new systematic mathematical methods beyond the methods developed for traditional Boolean algebra.

The ability to learn and perform statistical inference with biologically plausible recurrent networks of spiking neurons is an important step toward understanding perception and reasoning. Here we derive and investigate a new learning rule for recurrent spiking networks with hidden neurons, combining principles from variational learning and reinforcement learning. Our network defines a generative model over spike train histories and the derived learning rule has the form of a local Spike Timing Dependent Plasticity rule modulated by global factors (neuromodulators) conveying information about &quot;novelty&quot; on a statistically rigorous ground. Simulations show that our model is able to learn both stationary and non-stationary patterns of spike trains. We also propose one experiment that could potentially be performed with animals in order to test the dynamics of the predicted novelty signal.

