

The Electrocardiogram (ECG) is the P-QRS-T wave depicting the cardiac activity of the heart. The subtle changes in the electric potential patterns of repolarization and depolarization are indicative of the disease afflicting the patient. These clinical time domain features of the ECG waveform can be used in cardiac health diagnosis. Due to the presence of noise and minute morphological parameter values, it is very difficult to identify the ECG classes accurately by the naked eye. Various computer aided cardiac diagnosis (CACD) systems, analysis methods, challenges addressed and the future of cardiovascular disease screening are reviewed in this paper. Methods developed for time domain, frequency transform domain, and time-frequency domain analysis, such as the wavelet transform, cannot by themselves represent the inherent distinguishing features accurately. Hence, nonlinear methods which can capture the small variations in the ECG signal and provide improved accuracy in the presence of noise are discussed in greater detail in this review. A CACD system exploiting these nonlinear features can help clinicians to diagnose cardiovascular disease more accurately.
In their 2002 seminal paper Hauser, Chomsky and Fitch hypothesize that recursion is the only human-specific and language-specific mechanism of the faculty of language. While debate focused primarily on the meaning of recursion in the hypothesis and on the human-specific and syntax-specific character of recursion, the present work focuses on the claim that recursion is language-specific. We argue that there are recursive structures in the domain of motor intentionality by way of extending John R. Searle's analysis of intentional action. We then discuss evidence from cognitive science and neuroscience supporting the claim that motor-intentional recursion is language-independent and suggest some explanatory hypotheses: (1) linguistic recursion is embodied in sensory-motor processing; (2) linguistic and motor-intentional recursions are distinct and mutually independent mechanisms. Finally, we propose some reflections about the epistemic status of HCF as presenting an empirically falsifiable hypothesis, and on the possibility of testing recursion in different cognitive domains.


Implicit learning is one of the most fundamental learning mechanisms that enables humans to adapt to regularities inherent in the environment. Despite its high flexibility, it depends on constraints, such as selective attention. Here, we focused on the stimulus-to-response binding which defines the dimensions of the stimuli and the responses participants attend to. In a serial reaction time task with a visual sequence, we investigated whether this stimulus-response binding influences the amount of sequence learning. The results of Experiments 1 and 2 showed that visual sequence learning is reduced when participants do not attend to the relevant response dimension. Furthermore, the findings of Experiment 3 suggest that attention to the relevant response dimension increased the development of explicit knowledge without affecting implicit knowledge. This latter finding is difficult to reconcile with the assumption that explicit learning results from the gradual strengthening of sequence representations.
The rubber hand illusion is a perceptual illusion in which a model hand is experienced as part of one's own body. In the present study we directly compared the classical illusion, based on visuotactile stimulation, with a rubber hand illusion based on active and passive movements. We examined the question of which combinations of sensory and motor cues are the most potent in inducing the illusion by subjective ratings and an objective measure (proprioceptive drift). In particular, we were interested in whether the combination of afferent and efferent signals in active movements results in the same illusion as in the purely passive modes. Our results show that the illusion is equally strong in all three cases. This demonstrates that different combinations of sensory input can lead to a very similar phenomenological experience and indicates that the illusion can be induced by any combination of multisensory information.
The belief in free will has been frequently challenged since Benjamin Libet published his famous experiment in 1983. Although Libet's experiment is highly dependent upon subjective reports, no study has been conducted that focused on a first-person or introspective perspective of the task. We took a neurophenomenological approach in an N=1 study providing reliable and valid measures of the first-person perspective in conjunction with brain dynamics. We found that a larger readiness potential (RP) is attributable to more frequent occurrences of self-initiated movements during negative deflections of the slow cortical potentials (SCP). These negative deflections occur in parallel with an inner impulse reported by an expert meditator which may in turn lead to a voluntary act. We demonstrate in this proof-of-principle approach that the first-person perspective obtained by an expert meditator in conjunction with neural signal analysis can contribute to our understanding of the neural underpinnings of voluntary acts.
Our sense of self includes awareness of our thoughts and movements, and our control over them. This feeling can be altered or lost in neuropsychiatric disorders as well as in phenomena such as &quot;automatic writing&quot; whereby writing is attributed to an external source. Here, we employed suggestion in highly hypnotically suggestible participants to model various experiences of automatic writing during a sentence completion task. Results showed that the induction of hypnosis, without additional suggestion, was associated with a small but significant reduction of control, ownership, and awareness for writing. Targeted suggestions produced a double dissociation between thought and movement components of writing, for both feelings of control and ownership, and additionally, reduced awareness of writing. Overall, suggestion produced selective alterations in the control, ownership, and awareness of thought and motor components of writing, thus enabling key aspects of automatic writing, observed across different clinical and cultural settings, to be modelled.
In a range of contexts, individuals arrive at collective decisions by sharing confidence in their judgements. This tendency to evaluate the reliability of information by the confidence with which it is expressed has been termed the 'confidence heuristic'. We tested two ways of implementing the confidence heuristic in the context of a collective perceptual decision-making task: either directly, by opting for the judgement made with higher confidence, or indirectly, by opting for the faster judgement, exploiting an inverse correlation between confidence and reaction time. We found that the success of these heuristics depends on how similar individuals are in terms of the reliability of their judgements and, more importantly, that for dissimilar individuals such heuristics are dramatically inferior to interaction. Interaction allows individuals to alleviate, but not fully resolve, differences in the reliability of their judgements. We discuss the implications of these findings for models of confidence and collective decision-making.
Number is known for influencing time processing, but to what extent time influences number in human adults is unclear. We investigated possible bidirectional interactions (number on time and time on number) using a novel Stroop-like task; participants compared numbers or temporal durations in congruent (larger number presented for longer duration) or incongruent conditions (smaller number presented for longer duration). Time and number tasks were presented in different blocks (Experiment 1) or within the same block of trials with task instructions provided at the offset of the stimuli (Experiment 2). Analyses of response times (RTs) and their distribution revealed that number affected time from early RTs, and time affected number at late RTs - an asymmetry observed only when time and number tasks were presented in separate blocks. Thus, carefully chosen tasks and appropriate data analysis can reveal bidirectionality between time and number, consistent with shared magnitude or decision mechanisms.


Alexithymia (&quot;no words for feelings&quot;) is a psychological construct that can be divided in a cognitive and affective dimension. The cognitive dimension reflects the ability to identify, verbalize and analyze feelings, whereas the affective dimension reflects the degree to which individuals get aroused by emotional stimuli and their ability to fantasize. These two alexithymia dimensions may differentially put individuals at risk to develop psychopathology. However, their neural correlates have rarely been investigated. The aim of the current study was to investigate whether the cognitive and affective alexithymia dimension are associated with unique anatomical profiles. Structural MRI scans of 57 participants (29 males; mean age: 34) were processed using a voxel-based morphometry (VBM) - Diffeomorphic Anatomical Registration Through Exponentiated Lie algebra (DARTEL) approach. Multiple regression analyses were performed to examine the common and specific associations between gray and white matter volume and alexithymia subdimensions. The results revealed that the cognitive dimension was related to lower dorsal anterior cingulate volume. In contrast, the affective alexithymia was associated with lower gray matter volume in the medial orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and lower white matter volume in the superior longitudinal fasciculus (SLF) near the angular gyrus. No relationship between corpus callosum volume and alexithymia was observed. These results are consistent with the idea that there are two separable neural systems underlying alexithymia. This finding might encourage future research into the link between specific alexithymia subtypes and the development of psychopathology.
Mammalian studies show that frustration is experienced when goal-directed activity is blocked. Despite frustration's strongly negative role in health, aggression and social relationships, the neural mechanisms are not well understood. To address this we developed a task in which participants were blocked from obtaining a reward, an established method of producing frustration. Levels of experienced frustration were parametrically varied by manipulating the participants' motivation to obtain the reward prior to blocking. This was achieved by varying the participants' proximity to a reward and the amount of effort expended in attempting to acquire it. In experiment 1, we confirmed that proximity and expended effort independently enhanced participants' self-reported desire to obtain the reward, and their self-reported frustration and response vigor (key-press force) following blocking. In experiment 2, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to show that both proximity and expended effort modulated brain responses to blocked reward in regions implicated in animal models of reactive aggression, including the amygdala, midbrain periaqueductal grey (PAG), insula and prefrontal cortex. Our findings suggest that frustration may serve an energizing function, translating unfulfilled motivation into aggressive-like surges via a cortical, amygdala and PAG network.

The neural correlates of action recognition have been widely studied in visual and sensorimotor areas of the human brain. However, the role of neuronal oscillations involved during the process of action recognition remains unclear. Here, we were interested in how the plausibility of an action modulates neuronal oscillations in visual and sensorimotor areas. Subjects viewed point-light displays (PLDs) of biomechanically plausible and implausible versions of the same actions. Using magnetoencephalography (MEG), we examined dynamic changes of oscillatory activity during these action recognition processes. While both actions elicited oscillatory activity in visual and sensorimotor areas in several frequency bands, a significant difference was confined to the beta-band (20Hz). An increase of power for plausible actions was observed in left temporal, parieto-occipital and sensorimotor areas of the brain, in the beta-band in successive order between 1650 and 2650msec. These distinct spatio-temporal beta-band profiles suggest that the action recognition process is modulated by the degree of biomechanical plausibility of the action, and that spectral power in the beta-band may provide a functional interaction between visual and sensorimotor areas in humans.
Accelerated long-term forgetting (ALF) is a form of memory impairment in which learning and initial retention of information appear normal but subsequent forgetting is excessively rapid. ALF is most commonly associated with epilepsy and, in particular, a form of late-onset epilepsy called transient epileptic amnesia (TEA). ALF provides a novel opportunity to investigate post-encoding memory processes, such as consolidation. Sleep is implicated in the consolidation of memory in healthy people and a deficit in sleep-dependent memory consolidation has been proposed as an explanation for ALF. If this proposal were correct, then sleep would not benefit memory retention in people with ALF as much as in healthy people, and ALF might only be apparent when the retention interval contains sleep. To test this theory, we compared performance on a sleep-sensitive memory task over a night of sleep and a day of wakefulness. We found, contrary to the hypothesis, that sleep benefits memory retention in TEA patients with ALF and that this benefit is no smaller in magnitude than that seen in healthy controls. Indeed, the patients performed significantly more poorly than the controls only in the wake condition and not the sleep condition. Patients were matched to controls on learning rate, initial retention, and the effect of time of day on cognitive performance. These results indicate that ALF is not caused by a disruption of sleep-dependent memory consolidation. Instead, ALF may be due to an encoding abnormality that goes undetected on behavioural assessments of learning, or by a deficit in memory consolidation processes that are not sleep-dependent.

Accelerated long-term forgetting (ALF) refers to abnormal forgetting over hours to weeks despite normal acquisition or initial consolidation. Since standardised assessments of memory typically only test at delays of up to 40-minutes, ALF may go undetected in clinical practice. The memory difficulties associated with ALF can however cause considerable distress to patients. It is important therefore that clinicians are aware that ALF may represent a distinct phenomenon that will require additional and careful assessment to aid patients' understanding of the condition and assist in developing strategies to address its effects. At the same time, ALF may also provide insight into long-term memory processes. Studies of ALF in patients with epilepsy have so far demonstrated mixed results, which may reflect differences in methodology. This review explores the methodological issues that can affect forgetting, such as the effects of age, general cognitive function, test sensitivity and initial learning. It then evaluates the extent to which existing studies have considered these key issues. We outline the points to consider when designing ALF studies that can be used to help improve their validity. These issues can also help to explain some of the mixed findings in studies of ALF and inform the design of standardised tests for assessing ALF in clinical practice.

Stigma remains a weight those with epilepsy have to carry and a defining feature of their identity. This article highlights recent studies published in the area of stigma, knowledge, attitudes, and practices regarding epilepsy. First, recent studies addressing the frequency of stigma and factors associated with stigma are discussed. Second, tools developed to ascertain stigma in epilepsy, or knowledge, attitudes, and practices, are examined. Lastly, we discuss interventions recently studied to reduce stigma in epilepsy.
There has been a great deal of interest recently in genetic effects on neurocognitive performance in the healthy population. KIBRA -a postsynaptic protein from the WWC family of proteins- was identified in 2003 in the human brain and kidney and has recently been associated with memory performance and synaptic plasticity. Through genome-wide screening, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was detected in the ninth intron of KIBRA gene (T C substitution) and was implicated in human memory and the underlying neuronal circuitry. This review presents a synopsis of the current findings on the effects of the KIBRA SNP on human memory and synaptic plasticity. Overall the findings suggest impaired memory performance and less efficient or impaired hippocampal/medial temporal lobe (MTL) activation in CC homozygotes (in comparison to T carriers) with some differences between young and older subjects. This review also highlights limitations and potential sources for variability of studies' imaging findings along with future perspectives and implications for the role of KIBRA in memory-related brain systems.

Schizophrenia is one of the most debilitating psychiatric diseases with a lifetime prevalence of approximately 1%. Although the specific molecular underpinnings of schizophrenia are still unknown, evidence has long linked its pathophysiology to postsynaptic abnormalities. The postsynaptic density (PSD) is among the molecular structures suggested to be potentially involved in schizophrenia. More specifically, the PSD is an electron-dense thickening of glutamatergic synapses, including ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors, cytoskeletal and scaffolding proteins, and adhesion and signaling molecules. Being implicated in the postsynaptic signaling of multiple neurotransmitter systems, mostly dopamine and glutamate, the PSD constitutes an ideal candidate for studying dopamine-glutamate disturbances in schizophrenia. Recent evidence suggests that some PSD proteins, such as PSD-95, Shank, and Homer are implicated in severe behavioral disorders, including schizophrenia. These findings, further corroborated by genetic and animal studies of schizophrenia, offer new insights for the development of pharmacological strategies able to overcome the limitations in terms of efficacy and side effects of current schizophrenia treatment. Indeed, PSD proteins are now being considered as potential molecular targets against this devastating illness. The current paper reviews the most recent hypotheses on the molecular mechanisms underlying schizophrenia pathophysiology. First, we review glutamatergic dysfunctions in schizophrenia and we provide an update on postsynaptic molecules involvement in schizophrenia pathophysiology by addressing both human and animal studies. Finally, the possibility that PSD proteins may represent potential targets for new molecular interventions in psychosis will be discussed.



Migraine is a debilitating neurological disorder with grave consequences for both the individual and society. This review will focus on recent literature investigating how brain structures implicated in reward and aversion contribute to the genesis of migraine pain. There exist many overlapping and interacting brain regions within pain and reward circuitry that contribute to negative affect and subjective experience of pain. The emotional component of pain has been argued to be a greater metric of quality of life than its sensory component, and thus understanding the processes that influence this pain characteristic is essential to developing novel treatment strategies for mitigating migraine pain. We emphasize and provide evidence that abnormalities within the mesolimbic cortical reward pathways contribute to migraine pain and that there are structural and functional neuroplasticity within the overlapping brain regions common to both pain and reward.
The lateral line system of anamniote vertebrates enables the detection of local water movement and weak bioelectric fields. Ancestrally, it comprises neuromasts - small sense organs containing mechanosensory hair cells - distributed in characteristic lines over the head and trunk, flanked on the head by fields of electroreceptive ampullary organs, innervated by afferent neurons projecting respectively to the medial and dorsal octavolateral nuclei in the hindbrain. Given the independent loss of the electrosensory system in multiple lineages, the development and evolution of the mechanosensory and electrosensory components of the lateral line must be dissociable. Nevertheless, the entire system arises from a series of cranial lateral line placodes, which exhibit two modes of sensory organ formation: elongation to form sensory ridges that fragment (with neuromasts differentiating in the center of the ridge, and ampullary organs on the flanks), or migration as collectives of cells, depositing sense organs in their wake. Intensive study of the migrating posterior lateral line placode in zebrafish has yielded a wealth of information concerning the molecular control of migration and neuromast formation in this migrating placode, in this cypriniform teleost species. However, our mechanistic understanding of neuromast and ampullary organ formation by elongating lateral line placodes, and even of other zebrafish lateral line placodes, is sparse or non-existent. Here, we attempt to highlight the diversity of lateral line development and the limits of the current research focus on the zebrafish posterior lateral line placode. We hope this will stimulate a broader approach to this fascinating sensory system.
The neural crest and craniofacial placodes are two distinct progenitor populations that arise at the border of the vertebrate neural plate. This border region develops through a series of inductive interactions that begins before gastrulation and progressively divide embryonic ectoderm into neural and non-neural regions, followed by the emergence of neural crest and placodal progenitors. In this review, we describe how a limited repertoire of inductive signals-principally FGFs, Wnts and BMPs-set up domains of transcription factors in the border region which establish these progenitor territories by both cross-inhibitory and cross-autoregulatory interactions. The gradual assembly of different cohorts of transcription factors that results from these interactions is one mechanism to provide the competence to respond to inductive signals in different ways, ultimately generating the neural crest and cranial placodes.




Low doses of ethanol have been shown to facilitate social behavior in adolescent rats. The present study sought to investigate whether this ethanol effect is associated with increases in the incentive salience of social stimuli when assessed via approach behavior toward a peer (separated from the experimental animal by a mesh barrier) and 50kHz ultrasonic vocalization (USV) production in that context. A 0.5g/kg ethanol dose was found to increase social approach/investigation of adolescent male Sprague-Dawley rats during the first 5min of the 10min test whereas 50kHz USV production was elevated by 0.25g/kg during the last 5min of testing. 50kHz USV production and social approach were generally not correlated, indicating a clear dissociation between these measures. This is the first study to demonstrate that ethanol-induced social facilitation in adolescents is associated with an ethanol-induced increase in the incentive salience of social stimuli.
Compared to adults, adolescents are at heightened risk for drug abuse and dependence. One of the factors contributing to this vulnerability may be age-dependent differences in reward processing, with adolescents approaching reward through stimulus-directed, rather than goal-directed, processes. However, the empirical evidence for this in rodent models of adolescence, particularly those that investigate both sexes, is limited. To address this, male and female rats that were adolescents (P30) or adults (P98) at the start of the experiment were trained in a Pavlovian approach (PA) task and were subsequently tested for the effects of reward devaluation, extinction, and re-acquisition. We found significant interactions between age and sex: females had enhanced acquisition of PA and poorer extinction, relative to males, while adolescents and females were less sensitive to reward devaluation than male adults. These results suggest that females and adolescents exhibit reward behavior that is more stimulus-directed, rather than goal-directed.
The kappa opioid receptor (KOR) antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI), was used to investigate the role of the KOR system in mediating ethanol intake. On P25 (adolescent) or P67 (adult) male and female rats were individually housed and given ad libitum access to food and water. The experimental procedure was initiated on P28 or P70: animals were given 30min/day access to a 10% ethanol/supersaccharin solution every other day (3 baseline exposures). On the day after the final baseline test, rats were injected with nor-BNI (0, 2.5, 5, 10mg/kg), with testing initiated 24hr later (30-min access every other day, 3 test exposures). Nor-BNI (10mg/kg) increased ethanol intake in adult males, whereas the same dose decreased intake in adult females, suggesting pronounced sex differences in KOR-associated mediation of ethanol intake in adulthood. There was no impact of nor-BNI in adolescent animals of either sex, suggesting that the KOR may play less of a role in modulating ethanol intake during adolescence.
The articles in this special section bolster the already strong evidence base that personality differences in the trait of conscientiousness predict health. What is now needed is a research agenda for translating documented risk associations between low conscientiousness and poor health into policies and interventions that improve health outcomes for individuals and populations. In this commentary, we highlight 1 such avenue: introducing brief personality assessment into primary care practice. We provide examples of how conscientiousness assessment may help health care professionals get to know their patients better and potentially serve as a guide for more personalized care. We also raise key considerations for implementation research aimed at examining the feasibility and utility of integrating conscientiousness assessment into primary care settings.
Dyscalculia, or mathematics learning disorders, is currently known to be heterogeneous (Wilson &amp; Dehaene, ). While various profiles of dyscalculia coexist, a general and persistent hallmark of this math learning disability is the difficulty in memorizing arithmetic facts (Geary, Hoard &amp; Hamson, ; Jordan &amp; Montani, ; Slade &amp; Russel, ). Arithmetic facts are simple arithmetic problems that are solved by direct retrieval from memory. Recently, De Visscher and Nol () showed hypersensitivity-to-interference in memory in an adult suffering from a specific deficit of arithmetic facts storage. According to the authors, arithmetic facts share many features. The overlapping of these features between arithmetic facts may provoke interference. Consequently, learners who are hypersensitive-to-interference could have considerable difficulties in storing arithmetic facts. The present study aims at testing this new hypothesis on fourth-grade children who are learning multiplication tables. Among 101 children that were assessed, 23 low arithmetic facts learners were selected because of their low score in arithmetic facts fluency (controlling for processing speed). Twenty-three control children were selected, matched for classroom, gender, and age. In addition to a subtest of global reasoning, these participants were given a multiplication production task and a memorization task of low- and high-interference associations. The results show that children with low arithmetic fluencies experience hypersensitivity-to-interference in memory compared with children with typical arithmetic fluencies.
We studied whether the origins of math anxiety can be related to a biologically supported framework of stress induction: (un)controllability perception, here indicated by self-reported independent efforts in mathematics. Math anxiety was tested in 182 children (8- to 11-year-olds). Latent factor modeling was used to test hypotheses on plausible causal processes and mediations within competing models in quasi-experimental contrasts. Uncontrollability perception in mathematics, or (in)dependence of efforts, best fit the data as an antecedent of math anxiety. In addition, the relationship of math anxiety with gender was fully mediated by adaptive perception of control (i.e. controllability). That is, young boys differ from girls in terms of their experience of control in mathematics learning. These differences influence math anxiety. Our findings are consistent with recent suggestions in clinical literature according to which uncontrollability makes women more susceptible to fear and anxiety disorders.
The ability to image cells live and in situ as they proliferate and differentiate has proved to be an invaluable asset to biologists investigating developmental processes. Here, we describe a Spectrum of Fates approach that allows the identification of all the major neuronal subtypes in the zebrafish retina simultaneously. Spectrum of Fates is based on the combinatorial expression of differently coloured fluorescent proteins driven by the promoters of transcription factors that are expressed in overlapping subsets of retinal neurons. Here, we show how a Spectrum of Fates approach can be used to assess various aspects of neural development, such as developmental waves of differentiation, neuropil development, lineage tracing and hierarchies of fates in the developing zebrafish retina.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression that play important roles in nervous system development and physiology. However, our understanding of the strategies by which miRNAs control synapse development is limited. We find that the highly conserved miRNA miR-8 regulates the morphology of presynaptic arbors at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction (NMJ) through a postsynaptic mechanism. Developmental analysis shows that miR-8 is required for presynaptic expansion that occurs in response to larval growth of the postsynaptic muscle targets. With an in vivo sensor, we confirm our hypothesis that the founding member of the conserved Ena/VASP (Enabled/Vasodilator Activated Protein) family is regulated by miR-8 through a conserved site in the Ena 3' untranslated region (UTR). Synaptic marker analysis and localization studies suggest that Ena functions within the subsynaptic reticulum (SSR) surrounding presynaptic terminals. Transgenic lines that express forms of a conserved mammalian Ena ortholog further suggest that this localization and function of postsynaptic Ena/VASP family protein is dependent on conserved C-terminal domains known to mediate actin binding and assembly while antagonizing actin-capping proteins. Ultrastructural analysis demonstrates that miR-8 is required for SSR morphogenesis. As predicted by our model, we find that Ena is both sufficient and necessary to account for miR-8-mediated regulation of SSR architecture, consistent with its localization in this compartment. Finally, electrophysiological analysis shows that miR-8 is important for spontaneous neurotransmitter release frequency and quantal content. However, unlike the structural phenotypes, increased expression of Ena fails to mimic the functional defects observed in miR-8-null animals. Together, these findings suggest that miR-8 limits the expansion of presynaptic terminals during larval synapse development through regulation of postsynaptic actin assembly that is independent of changes in synapse physiology.
During vertebrate development, centrally projecting sensory axons of the dorsal root ganglia neurons first reach the embryonic spinal cord at the dorsolateral margin. Instead of immediately projecting into the grey matter, they bifurcate and extend rostrally and caudally to establish the longitudinal dorsal funiculus during a stereotyped waiting period of approximately 48&amp;emsp14;h. Collateral fibres then extend concurrently across multiple spinal segments and project to their appropriate targets within the grey matter. This rostrocaudal extension of sensory afferents is crucial for the intersegmental processing of information throughout the spinal cord. However, the precise cues that prevent premature entry during the waiting period remain to be identified. Here, we show that semaphorin 5B (Sema5B), a member of the semaphorin family of guidance molecules, is expressed in the chick spinal cord during this waiting period and dorsal funiculus formation. Sema5B expression is dynamic, with a reduction of expression apparent in the spinal cord concomitant with collateral extension. We show that Sema5B inhibits the growth of NGF-dependent sensory axons and that this effect is mediated in part through the cell adhesion molecule TAG-1. Knockdown of Sema5B in the spinal cord using RNA interference leads to the premature extension of cutaneous nociceptive axons into the dorsal horn grey matter. These premature projections predominantly occur at the site of dorsal root entry. Our results suggest that Sema5B contributes to a repulsive barrier for centrally projecting primary sensory axons, forcing them to turn and establish the dorsal funiculus.
In gnathostome vertebrates, including fish, birds and mammals, peripheral nerves link nervous system, body and immediate environment by integrating efferent pathways controlling movement apparatus or organ function and afferent pathways underlying somatosensation. Several lines of evidence suggest that peripheral nerve assembly involves instructive interactions between efferent and afferent axon types, but conflicting findings challenge this view. Using genetic modeling in zebrafish, chick and mouse we uncover here a conserved hierarchy of axon type-dependent extension and selective fasciculation events that govern peripheral nerve assembly, which recapitulates the successive phylogenetic emergence of peripheral axon types and circuits in the vertebrate lineage.

Usher syndrome (USH), the leading cause of hereditary combined hearing and vision loss, is characterized by sensorineural deafness and progressive retinal degeneration. Mutations in several different genes produce USH, but the proximal cause of sensory cell death remains mysterious. We adapted a proximity ligation assay to analyze associations among three of the USH proteins, Cdh23, Harmonin and Myo7aa, and the microtubule-based transporter Ift88 in zebrafish inner ear mechanosensory hair cells. We found that the proteins are in close enough proximity to form complexes and that these complexes preassemble at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Defects in any one of the three USH proteins disrupt formation and trafficking of the complex and result in diminished levels of the other proteins, generalized trafficking defects and ER stress that triggers apoptosis. ER stress, thus, contributes to sensory hair cell loss and provides a new target to explore for protective therapies for USH.

In this study, we analyzed diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) results of brain white matter in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) with four different parameter settings and found that the sequence A (b=1 000 s/mm(2), spatial resolution=1.25 mm1.25 mm 1.25 mm, numbers of direction=33, NSA=3) and B (b=800 s/mm(2), spatial resolution=1.25 mm1.25 mm1.25 mm, numbers of direction=33, NSA=3) could accurately track coarse fibers. The fractional anisotropy (FA) derived from sequence C (b=1 000s/mm(2), spatial resolution=0.55 mm0.55 mm2.5 mm, direction number=33, NSA=3) was too fuzzy to be used in tracking white matter fibers. By comparison, the high resolution and the FA with high contrast of gray matter and white matter derived from sequence D (b=800 s/mm(2), spatial resolution=1.0 mm1.0 mm 1.0 mm, numbers of direction=33, NSA=3) qualified in its application in tracking both thick and thin fibers, making it an optimal DTI setting for rhesus macaques.
Postpartum depression (PPD) is a modified form of major depressive disorders (MDD) that can exert profound negative effects on both mothers and infants than MDD. Within the postpartum period, both mothers and infants are susceptible; but because PPD typically occurs for short durations and has moderate symptoms, there exists challenges in exploring and addressing the underlying cause of the depression. This fact highlights the need for relevant animal models. In the present study, postpartum adult female cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) living in breeding groups were observed for typical depressive behavior. The huddle posture behavior was utilized as an indicator of behavioral depression postpartum (BDP) as it has been established as the core depressive-like behavior in primates. Monkeys were divided into two groups: A BDP group (n=6), which were found to spend more time huddling over the first two weeks postpartum than other individuals that formed a non-depression control group (n=4). The two groups were then further analyzed for locomotive activity, stressful events, hair cortisol levels and for maternal interactive behaviors. No differences were found between the BDP and control groups in locomotive activity, in the frequencies of stressful events experienced and in hair cortisol levels. These findings suggested that the postpartum depression witnessed in the monkeys was not related to external factors other than puerperium period. Interestingly, the BDP monkeys displayed an abnormal maternal relationship consisting of increased infant grooming. Taken together, these findings suggest that the adult female cynomolgus monkeys provide a natural model of behavioral postpartum depression that holds a number of advantages over commonly used rodent systems in PPD modeling. The cynomolgus monkeys have a highly-organized social hierarchy and reproductive characteristics without seasonal restriction-similar to humans-as well as much greater homology to humans than rodents. As such, this model may provide a greater translational efficiency and research platform for systematically investigating the etiology, treatment, prevention of PPD.



Diffusion MRI has been used worldwide to produce images of brain tissue structure and connectivity, in the normal and diseased brain. Diffusion MRI has revolutionized the management of acute brain ischemia (stroke), saving life of many patients and sparing them significant disabilities. In addition to stroke, diffusion MRI is now widely used for the detection of cancers and metastases (breast, prostate, liver). Another major field of application of diffusion MRI regards the wiring of the brain. Diffusion MRI is now used to map the circuitry of the human brain with incredible accuracy, opening up new lines of inquiry for human neuroscience and for the understanding of brain illnesses or mental disorders. Here, as a pioneer of the field, I provide a personal account on the historical development of these concepts over the last 30years.
The X-chromosomal MECP2/Mecp2 gene encodes methyl-CpG-binding protein 2, a transcriptional activator and repressor regulating many other genes. We discovered in male FVB/N mice that mild (~50%) transgenic overexpression of Mecp2 enhances aggression. Surprisingly, when the same transgene was expressed in C57BL/6N mice, transgenics showed reduced aggression and social interaction. This suggests that Mecp2 modulates aggressive social behavior. To test this hypothesis in humans, we performed a phenotype-based genetic association study (PGAS) in &gt;1000 schizophrenic individuals. We found MECP2 SNPs rs2239464 (G/A) and rs2734647 (C/T; 3'UTR) associated with aggression, with the G and C carriers, respectively, being more aggressive. This finding was replicated in an independent schizophrenia cohort. Allele-specific MECP2 mRNA expression differs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells by ~50% (rs2734647: C&gt;T). Notably, the brain-expressed, species-conserved miR-511 binds to MECP2 3'UTR only in T carriers, thereby suppressing gene expression. To conclude, subtle MECP2/Mecp2 expression alterations impact aggression. While the mouse data provides evidence of an interaction between genetic background and mild Mecp2 overexpression, the human data convey means by which genetic variation affects MECP2 expression and behavior.
The enzyme type 2 deiodinase (D2) is a major determinant of T3 production in the central nervous system. It is highly expressed in tanycytes, a specialized cell type lining the wall of the third ventricle. During acute inflammation, the expression of D2 in tanycytes is up-regulated by a mechanism that is poorly understood at present, but we hypothesized that cJun N-terminal kinase 1 (JNK1) and v-rel avian reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene homolog A (RelA) (the 65 kD subunit of NFB) inflammatory signal transduction pathways are involved. In a mouse model for acute inflammation, we studied the effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on mRNA expression of D2, JNK1, and RelA in the periventricular area (PE) and the arcuate nucleus-median eminence of the hypothalamus. We next investigated LPS-induced D2 expression in primary tanycyte cell cultures. In the PE, the expression of D2 was increased by LPS. In the arcuate nucleus, but not in the PE, we found increased RelA mRNA expression. Likewise, LPS increased D2 and RelA mRNA expression in primary tanycyte cell cultures, whereas JNK1 mRNA expression did not change. Phosphorylation of RelA and JNK1 was increased in tanycyte cell cultures 15-60 minutes after LPS stimulation, confirming activation of these pathways. Finally, inhibition of RelA with the chemical inhibitors sulfasalazine and 4-Methyl-N(1)-(3-phenylpropyl)benzene-1,2-diamine (JSH-23) in tanycyte cell cultures prevented the LPS-induced D2 increase. We conclude that NFB signaling is essential for the up-regulation of D2 in tanycytes during inflammation.
This study investigated potential mechanisms by which age and IGF-I receptor (IGF-Ir) signaling in the neuroendocrine hypothalamus affect estradiol-positive feedback effects on GnRH neuronal activation and on kisspeptin and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced LH release and on the abundance of NMDA receptor subunits Nr1 and Nr2b and Kiss1r transcript and protein in the hypothalamus of young and middle-aged female rats. We infused vehicle, IGF-I, or JB-1, a selective antagonist of IGF-Ir, into the third ventricle of ovariectomized female rats primed with estradiol or vehicle and injected with vehicle, kisspeptin (3 or 30 nmol/kg), or NMDA (15 or 30 mg/kg). Regardless of dose, NMDA and kisspeptin resulted in significantly more LH release, GnRH/c-Fos colabeling, and c-Fos immunoreative cells in young than in middle-aged females. Estradiol priming significantly increased Kiss1r, Nr1, and Nr2b receptor transcript and protein abundance in young but not middle-aged female hypothalamus. JB-1 attenuated kisspeptin and NMDA-induced LH release, numbers of GnRH/c-Fos and c-Fos cells, and Kiss1r, Nr1, and Nr2b transcript and protein abundance in young females to levels observed in middle-aged females. IGF-I significantly enhanced NMDA and kisspeptin-induced LH release in middle-aged females without increasing numbers of GnRH/c-Fos or c-Fos immunoreactive cells. IGF-I infusion in middle-aged females also increased Kiss1r, Nr1, and Nr2b protein and transcript to levels that were equivalent to young estradiol-primed females. These findings indicate that age-related changes in estradiol-regulated responsiveness to excitatory input from glutamate and kisspeptin reflect reduced IGF-Ir signaling.
Thyroid hormone regulates immune functions and has antiinflammatory effects. In promoter assays, the thyroid hormone-activating enzyme, type 2 deiodinase (D2), is highly inducible by the inflammatory transcription factor nuclear factor- B (NF-B), but it is unknown whether D2 is induced in a similar fashion in vivo during inflammation. We first reexamined the effect of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on D2 expression and NF-B activation in the rat and mouse brain using in situ hybridization. In rats, LPS induced very robust D2 expression in normally non-D2-expressing cells in the leptomeninges, adjacent brain blood vessels, and the choroid plexus. These cells were vimentin-positive fibroblasts and expressed the NF-B activation marker, inhibitor  B- mRNA, at 2 hours after injection, before the increase in D2 mRNA. In mice, LPS induced intense D2 expression in the choroid plexus but not in leptomeninges, with an early expression peak at 2 hours. Moderate D2 expression along numerous brain blood vessels appeared later. D2 and NF-B activation was induced in tanycytes in both species but with a different time course. Enzymatic assays from leptomeningeal and choroid plexus samples revealed exceptionally high D2 activity in LPS-treated rats and Syrian hamsters and moderate but significant increases in mice. These data demonstrate the cell type-specific, highly inducible nature of D2 expression by inflammation, and NF-B as a possible initiating factor, but also warrant attention for species differences. The results suggest that D2-mediated T3 production by fibroblasts regulate local inflammatory actions in the leptomeninges, choroid plexus and brain blood vessels, and perhaps also in other organs.
Apolipoprotein AIV (Apo AIV) and cholecystokinin (CCK) are secreted in response to fat consumption, and both cause satiation via CCK 1 receptor (CCK-1R)-containing vagal afferent nerves to the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), where Apo AIV is also synthesized. Fasted male Long-Evans rats received ip CCK-8 or fourth-ventricular (i4vt) Apo AIV alone or in combination. Food intake and c-Fos proteins (a product of the c-Fos immediate-early gene) were assessed. i4vt Apo AIV and/or ip CCK at effective doses reduced food intake and activated c-Fos proteins in the NTS and hypothalamic arcuate nucleus and paraventricular nucleus. Blockade of the CCK-1R by i4vt lorglumide adjacent to the NTS attenuated the satiating and c-Fos-stimulating effects of CCK and Apo AIV, alone or in combination. Maintenance on a high-fat diet (HFD) for 10 weeks resulted in weight gain and attenuation of both the behavioral and c-Fos responses to a greater extent than occurred in low-fat diet-fed and pair-fed HFD animals. These observations suggest that NTS Apo AIV or/and peripheral CCK requires vagal CCK-1R signaling to elicit satiation and that maintenance on a HFD reduces the satiating capacity of these 2 signals.

The question we address here is whether the invasive presurgical brain mapping approaches of direct cortical stimulation and of the Wada procedure can be replaced by noninvasive functional neuroimaging methods (functional magnetic resonance imaging [fMRI], magnetoencephalography [MEG], transcranial magnetic stimulation and [TMS]). First, we outline the reasons for contemplating such a replacement. Second, we present evidence to the effect that the efficacy of the invasive and noninvasive methods, while suboptimal, is comparable. Third, we discuss additional advantages of noninvasive presurgical brain mapping and conclude that there are no longer compelling reasons for opting for invasive mapping in many if not most cases provided that the non-invasive methods are available. A PowerPoint slide summarizing this article is available for download in the Supporting Information section here.



Misconception and stigma towards epilepsy have a profound impact on this disease in Africa. An unselected sample of Zambian people was interviewed to investigate their knowledge and attitudes towards epilepsy. Proper/improper answers were scored, and a composite score was developed with negative values for unsatisfactory awareness and high stigma levels. The sample comprised 231 people residing in urban (107) or in rural (124) areas. The median and interquartile range of scores for epilepsy awareness and stigma were, respectively, -1 (-3; +1) and +1 (-1; +6). Poor education was the only significant predictor of unsatisfactory awareness (p=0.0131), while education and residency were significantly associated with stigma (p&lt;0.0001 and p=0.0004). Rural people were mostly in the highest stigma level (44.2%) and urban people in the lowest stigma level (60.4%). Misconception and negative attitudes towards epilepsy among Zambian people reflect poor education and rural residency.
The process of caring for youth with epilepsy (YWEs) has been understudied. Previous research has identified that caregivers of YWEs report increased parenting stress, unanticipated caregiving responsibilities, and negative effects on family life. Using the adapted Caregiving Process Model, perceptions of the caregiving process were explored in four focus groups of caregivers of youth with epilepsy diagnosed at &lt;1 year, between 1 and 5 years, and &gt;5 years. Thematic analysis guided the data analysis. The prevalent theme that emerged during the data analysis was navigating the noncontingencies (lack of a perceived relationship between action and outcome, unpredictability). This was supported by the subthemes, namely, blessings and sacrifices, uncertainty today and tomorrow, constant vigilance, and caregiving is more than parenting. The focus groups displayed similarities and differences in caregiving perceptions across the three postdiagnosis time periods, providing support for conceptualization of the caregiving as multifactorial, multidirectional, and fluid process. With this knowledge, epilepsy health-care professionals are encouraged to promote patient and family centeredness, provide information on how to access community resources, and work with caregivers to enhance epilepsy self-management skills.
The first reports of combined EEG and fMRI used for evaluation of epileptic spikes date back to the mid-90s. At that time, the technique was called EEG-triggered fMRI--the &quot;triggered&quot; corresponded to an epilepsy specialist reviewing live EEG while the patient was located in the scanner; after the spike was identified, a scan was initiated to collect the data. Since then major progress has been made in combined EEG/fMRI data collection and analyses. These advances allow studying the electrophysiology of genetic generalized epilepsies (GGEs) in vivo in greater detail than ever. In addition to continuous data collection, we now have better methods for removing physiologic and fMRI-related artifacts, more advanced understanding of the hemodynamic response functions, and better computational methods to address the questions regarding the origins of the epileptiform discharge generators in patients with GGEs. These advances have allowed us to examine numerous cohorts of children and adults with GGEs while not only looking for spike and wave generators but also examining specific types of GGEs (e.g., juvenile myoclonic epilepsy or childhood absence epilepsy), drug-nave patients, effects of medication resistance, or effects of epileptiform abnormalities and/or seizures on brain connectivity. While the discussion is ongoing, the prevailing thought is that the GGEs as a group are a network disorder with participation from multiple nodes including the thalami and cortex with the clinical presentation depending on which node of the participating network is affected by the disease process. This review discusses the contributions of EEG/fMRI to our understanding of GGEs.


The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the effects of the anterior temporal lobectomy on the functional state of the auditory pathway in a group of drug-resistant epileptic patients, linking the electrophysiological results to the resection magnitude. Twenty-seven patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and a matched control group were studied. Auditory brainstem and middle latency responses (ABR and MLR respectively) were carried out before and after 6, 12 and 24 months surgical treatment. The volume and longitude of temporo-mesial resected structures were estimated on magnetic resonance images taken 6 months after surgery. Before the intervention the patients showed a significant delay of latency in waves III, V, Pa and Nb, with an increase in duration of I-V interval in comparison with healthy subjects (Mann-Whitney U-test, p&lt;0.05). After resection, additional significant differences in waves I and Na latency were observed. Na and Pa waveforms showed a tendency to increase in amplitude, which became statistically significant 12 months after surgery for right hemisphere lobectomized patients in the midline electrode, and in Pa waveform for all patients in the temporal electrodes ipsilateral to resection (Wilcoxon test, p&lt;0.05). In general, latency variations of MLR correlated with resection longitude, while changes in amplitude correlated with the volume of the resection in the middle temporal pole and amygdala (Pearson' correlation test, p&lt;0.05). As a result, we assume that anterior temporal lobectomy provokes functional modifications into the auditory pathway, probably related to an indirect modulation of its activity by the temporo-mesial removed structures.
Corneal kindling is a useful alternative to electrically induced amygdala or hippocampal kindling, which requires advanced surgical and EEG techniques that may not be easily available in many laboratories. Therefore the first aim of this study was to evaluate whether repeated 6 Hz corneal stimulation in mice would lead to an increased and persistent seizure response as described for higher frequency (50/60 Hz) corneal kindling. Male NMRI mice stimulated twice daily (except weekends) for 3 s with 6 Hz electrical current at 44 mA displayed robust kindling development, i.e., a progressive increase in seizure severity. The majority of the animals (about 90%) developed a fully kindled state, defined as at least 10 consecutive stage 3-5 seizures within 5 weeks of corneal stimulation. Afterwards, the fully kindled state was maintained for at least 8 weeks with only two days of stimulations per week. Next, the protective efficacy of four mechanistically different antiepileptic drugs (AEDs; clonazepam, valproate, carbamazepine and levetiracetam) was assessed and compared between 6 Hz and 50 Hz fully kindled mice. All tested AEDs showed a relatively lower potency in the 6 Hz kindling model and a limited efficacy against partial seizures was observed with carbamazepine and levetiracetam. We can conclude that 6 Hz kindling may be more advantageous than the previously described 50/60 Hz corneal kindling models due to its robustness and persistence of the fully kindled state. Furthermore, the observed low potency and limited efficacy of AEDs in 6 Hz fully kindled mice suggest that this model could be a useful tool in the discovery of novel AEDs targeting treatment resistant epilepsy.
The glycine co-agonist binding site of the N-methyl-D-aspartat (NMDA) receptor is discussed as an interesting target for different central nervous system diseases. Antagonism at this co-agonist site has been suggested as an alternative to the use of non-competitive or competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, which are associated with a pronounced adverse effect profile in chronic epilepsy models and epilepsy patients. In the present study, we addressed the hypothesis that sub-chronic administration of the glycine-binding site antagonist L-701,324 might exert disease-modifying effects in fully kindled mice during a period with frequent seizure elicitation (massive kindling). Moreover, we analyzed whether L-701,324 exposure during this phase affects the subsequent response to an antiepileptic drug. L-701,324 treatment during the massive kindling phase did not affect ictogenesis. Mean seizure severity and cumulative seizure duration proved to be comparable between vehicle- and L-701,324-treated mice. Following withdrawal of L-701,324 seizure thresholds did not differ in a significant manner from those in animals that received vehicle injections. A low dosage of phenobarbital caused a significant increase of the generalized seizure threshold in the L-701,324 pre-treated group, whereas it did not exert a comparable effect in animals that received vehicle during the massive kindling phase. Analysis of P-glycoprotein in the hilus of the hippocampus revealed lower expression rates in L-701,324 pre-treated kindled mice. In conclusion, the data indicate that targeting of the NMDA receptor glycine-binding site does not result in anticonvulsant or disease-modifying effects. However, it might improve antiepileptic drug responses. The findings might be linked to an impact on P-glycoprotein expression. However, future studies are necessary to further evaluate the mechanisms and assess the potential of respective add-on approaches.
Mutations in the solute carrier family 9, subfamily A member 6 (SLC9A6) gene, encoding the endosomal Na+/H+ exchanger 6 (NHE6) are associated with Christianson syndrome, a syndromic form of X-linked intellectual disability characterized by microcephaly, severe global developmental delay, autistic behavior, early onset seizures and ataxia. In a 7-year-old boy with characteristic clinical and neuroimaging features of Christianson syndrome and epileptic encephalopathy with continuous spikes and waves during sleep, we identified a novel splice site mutation (IVS10-1G&gt;A) in SLC9A6. These findings expand the clinical spectrum of the syndrome and indicate NHE6 dysfunction as a new cause of electrical status epilepticus during slow-wave sleep (ESES).

Chronically implanted intracranial depth electrodes are widely used for studying electroencephalographic activities in deep cerebral locations and for electrical stimulation of such locations. We have previously reported that prolonged implantation of an electrode in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of rats facilitates subsequent kindling from this site, indicating a pro-kindling or pro-epileptogenic effect. To further characterize this phenomenon, we analyzed data from experiments in which we induced a self-sustaining status epilepticus (SSSE) by BLA stimulation following different periods of post-surgical delay. In a total of 183 Sprague-Dawley rats, three groups with different periods of postsurgical delay to onset of electrical stimulation were compared: group 1 (16 days on average), group 2 (28 days) and group 3 (48 days). Three types of SSSE were observed after BLA stimulation: type 1 (nonconvulsive), type 2 (nonconvulsive occasionally interrupted by generalized convulsive activity), and type 3 (generalized convulsive). While groups 1 and 2 did not differ in the frequency of these SSSE types, the group with the longest interval between electrode implantation and stimulation (group 3) showed significantly more severe SSSE than the two other groups. The data indicate that intracranial electrode implantation may increase the sensitivity of the implanted area to seizure induction, extending previous findings in the kindling model. Potential mechanisms of these findings include the functional consequences of local microhemorrhages and blood-brain barrier destruction.
Tropomyosin-related kinase receptor B (TrkB) activation has been implicated in epileptogenesis. We investigated hippocampal levels of phosphorylated TrkB (p-TrkB) and potential antiepileptogenic actions of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, lestaurtinib (CEP-701) in postnatal day 10 (P10) rat pups following hypoxic seizures (HS). Hippocampal expression of p-TrkB over total TrkB protein levels were assessed by immunoblot at 6, 12, or 24 h post-HS, and revealed a statistically significant and transient 1.5-fold increase in hippocampal p-TrkB 12 h post-HS compared to littermate normoxic controls. To investigate the effects of CEP-701, pups were treated with 2 doses of CEP-701 intraperitoneally (i.p.), 3 mg/kg/dose, immediately after and 12 h post-HS. P-TrkB levels and susceptibility to kainic acid (KA)-induced seizures at P14 were compared between post-HS CEP-701-treated pups, post-HS vehicle-treated pups and normoxic littermates. Post-treatment with CEP-701 reversed the increased TrkB phosphorylation to baseline normoxic levels and attenuated the HS-related enhanced susceptibility to KA-induced seizures at P14. Given its known clinical safety profile, CEP-701 is a promising clinically translatable therapy to prevent epileptogenesis in the immature brain.

Identifying environmental risk factors in the pathway to depression is an important research goal. To extend prior research, designs that rule out alternative explanatory factors; genetic effects and reverse causation, and permit tests of both parent and child gender are required. The present study used two different samples to address these issues. A longitudinal community sample of 316 families (157 boys, 159 girls) aged 11-12years (mean 11.7) at Time 1 and 12-13years at Time 2 (mean 12.7) was used to test the direction of effects between parent hostility and child and adolescent depressionsymptoms. A genetically sensitive sample of 1,075 twin pairs; 653 dizygotic (135 male, 183 female, 335 opposite sex) and 422 monozygotic (180 male and 242 female) aged 12-20years (mean 16.12) was used to test whether parent hostility had environmental effects. Analyses were conducted separately by parent and child gender. Using cross-lagged panel analyses, the association between mother-daughter hostility and depression symptoms was found to be longitudinal and bidirectional with reciprocal effects between mothers and daughters. Behavioural genetic analyses in the twin sample revealed a significant environmental link between mother hostility and symptoms of daughter depression independent of genetic factors. A significant pathway was found between daughter depressive symptoms and father hostility but not vice versa. This association was accounted for by genetic factors in behavioural genetic analyses. Findings provide evidence of an environmental risk pathway to depression symptoms and identify patterns of variation according to parent and child gender. Results are discussed in relation to underlying explanatory processes and clinical implications.



Fibulin-1 is an extracellular matrix protein that has an important role in the structure of elastic fibers and basement membranes of various tissues. Using homozygosity mapping and exome sequencing, we discovered a missense mutation, p.(Cys397Phe), in fibulin-1 in three patients from a consanguineous family presented with a novel syndrome of syndactyly, undescended testes, delayed motor milestones, mental retardation and signs of brain atrophy. The mutation discovered segregated with the phenotype and was not found in 374 population-matched alleles. The affected cysteine is highly conserved across vertebrates and its mutation is predicted to abolish a disulfide bond that defines the tertiary structure of fibulin-1. Our findings emphasize the crucial role fibulin-1 has in development of the central nervous system and various connective tissues.
Dyslexia is one of the most common childhood disorders with a prevalence of around 5-10% in school-age children. Although an important genetic component is known to have a role in the aetiology of dyslexia, we are far from understanding the molecular mechanisms leading to the disorder. Several candidate genes have been implicated in dyslexia, including DYX1C1, DCDC2, KIAA0319, and the MRPL19/C2ORF3 locus, each with reports of both positive and no replications. We generated a European cross-linguistic sample of school-age children - the NeuroDys cohort - that includes more than 900 individuals with dyslexia, sampled with homogenous inclusion criteria across eight European countries, and a comparable number of controls. Here, we describe association analysis of the dyslexia candidate genes/locus in the NeuroDys cohort. We performed both case-control and quantitative association analyses of single markers and haplotypes previously reported to be dyslexia-associated. Although we observed association signals in samples from single countries, we did not find any marker or haplotype that was significantly associated with either case-control status or quantitative measurements of word-reading or spelling in the meta-analysis of all eight countries combined. Like in other neurocognitive disorders, our findings underline the need for larger sample sizes to validate possibly weak genetic effects.


Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) and graft-induced dyskinesias (GIDs) are serious and common complications of Parkinson's disease (PD) management following chronic treatment with levodopa or intrastriatal transplantation with dopamine-rich foetal ventral mesencephalic tissue, respectively. Positron emission tomography (PET) molecular imaging provides a powerful in vivo tool that has been employed over the past 20 years for the elucidation of mechanisms underlying the development of LIDs and GIDs in PD patients. PET used together with radioligands tagging molecular targets has allowed the functional investigation of several systems in the brain including the dopaminergic, serotonergic, glutamatergic, opioid, endocannabinoid, noradrenergic and cholinergic systems. In this article the role of PET imaging in unveiling pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the development of LIDs and GIDs in PD patients is reviewed.
Glucocorticoids can cause depression and anxiety. Mechanisms for glucocorticoid effects on mood are largely undefined. The dorsal raph nucleus (DRN) produces the majority of serotonin in the brain, and expresses glucocorticoid receptors (GR). Because we previously showed that antidepressants used to treat depression and anxiety decrease DRN GR expression, we hypothesized that deleting DRN GR would have anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects. We also hypothesized that DRN GR deletion would disinhibit activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Adeno-associated virus pseudotype AAV2/9 expressing either Cre recombinase (DRNGRKO mice) or GFP (DRN-GFP mice) was injected into the DRN of floxed GR mice to test these hypotheses. Three weeks after injection, mice underwent 21days of social defeat or control handling and were tested for anxiety-like behavior (open-field test, elevated-plus maze), depression-like behavior [sucrose preference, forced-swim test (FST), tail-suspension test (TST)], social interaction, and circadian and stress-induced HPA activity. DRN GR deletion decreased anxiety-like behavior in control but not in defeated mice. DRN GR deletion decreased FST and tended to decrease TST despair-like behavior in both control and defeated mice, but did not affect sucrose preference. Exploration of social (a novel mouse) as well as neutral (an empty box) targets was increased in DRNGRKO mice, suggesting that DRN GR deletion also promotes active coping. DRN GR deletion increased stress-induced HPA activity without strongly altering circadian HPA activity. We have shown a novel role for DRN GR to mediate anxiety- and despair-like behavior and to regulate HPA negative feedback during acute stress.
Glutamate receptors for N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) are involved in early brain development. The kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism includes the NMDA receptor agonist quinolinic acid and the antagonist kynurenic acid. We now report that prenatal inhibition of the pathway in rats with 3,4-dimethoxy-N-[4-(3-nitrophenyl)thiazol-2-yl]benzenesulphonamide (Ro61-8048) produces marked changes in hippocampal neuron morphology, spine density and the immunocytochemical localisation of developmental proteins in the offspring at postnatal day 60. Golgi-Cox silver staining revealed decreased overall numbers and lengths of CA1 basal dendrites and secondary basal dendrites, together with fewer basal dendritic spines and less overall dendritic complexity in the basal arbour. Fewer dendrites and less complexity were also noted in the dentate gyrus granule cells. More neurons containing the nuclear marker NeuN and the developmental protein sonic hedgehog were detected in the CA1 region and dentate gyrus. Staining for doublecortin revealed fewer newly generated granule cells bearing extended dendritic processes. The number of neuron terminals staining for vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT)-1 and VGLUT-2 was increased by Ro61-8048, with no change in expression of vesicular GABA transporter or its co-localisation with vesicle-associated membrane protein-1. These data support the view that constitutive kynurenine metabolism normally plays a role in early embryonic brain development, and that interfering with it has profound consequences for neuronal structure and morphology, lasting into adulthood.
The current study examined the effects of pheromonal exposure on adult neurogenesis and revealed the role of the olfactory pathways on adult neurogenesis and behavior in the socially monogamous prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster). Subjects were injected with a cell proliferation marker [5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)] and then exposed to their own soiled bedding or bedding soiled by a same- or opposite-sex conspecific. Exposure to opposite-sex bedding increased BrdU labeling in the amygdala (AMY), but not the dentate gyrus (DG), of female, but not male, voles, indicating a sex-, stimulus-, and brain region-specific effect. The removal of the main olfactory bulbs or lesioning of the vomeronasal organ (VNOX) in females reduced BrdU labeling in the AMY and DG, and inhibited the male bedding-induced BrdU labeling in the AMY, revealing the importance of an intact olfactory pathway for amygdaloid neurogenesis. VNOX increased anxiety-like behavior and altered social preference, but it did not affect social recognition memory in female voles. VNOX also reduced the percentage of BrdU-labeled cells that co-expressed the neuronal marker TuJ1 in the AMY, but not the DG. Together, our data indicate the importance of the olfactory pathway in mediating brain plasticity in the limbic system as well as its role in behavior.
Cell therapy for spinal cord injury (SCI) is a promising strategy for clinical application. Both bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs; also known as bone marrow-derived 'mesenchymal stem cells') and olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) have demonstrated beneficial effects following transplantation in animal models of SCI. However, due to the large number of affecting parameters that determine the therapy success and the lack of methodological consensus, the comparison of different works is difficult. Therefore, we compared the effects of MSC and OEC transplants at early or delayed time after a spinal cord contusion injury in the rat. Functional outcomes for locomotion, sensory perception and electrophysiological responses were assessed. Moreover, the grafted cells survival and the amount of cavity and spared tissue were studied. The findings indicate that grafted cells survived until 7days post-injection, but markedly disappeared in the following 2weeks. Despite the low survival of the cells, MSC and OEC grafts provided tissue protection after early and delayed transplantation. Nevertheless, only acute MSC grafts improved locomotion recovery in treadmill condition and electrophysiological outcomes with respect to the other injured groups. These results, together with previous works, indicate that the MSC seem a better option than OEC for treatment of contusion injuries.
Subthalamic nucleus (STN) modulation is currently the gold standard in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) cases refractory to medication. Cell transplantation is a tissue-restorative approach and is a promising strategy in the treatment of PD. One of the obstacles to overcome in cell therapy is the poor dopaminergic cell survival. Our experiment investigates the impact of a partial subthalamotomy prior to ventral mesencephalic (VM) embryonic cell transplantation on dopaminergic cell survival and functional outcome. Unilateral dopamine depletion was carried out in rats, via medial forebrain bundle (MFB) injection of 6-hydroxydopamine, and half of the animals went on to receive unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the STN/Zone Incerta (ZI) causing partial lesion of these structures on the same side as the MFB lesion. All MFB-lesioned animals, with or without the STN/ZI lesion, received striatal ipsilateral embryonic VM cell grafts. The data suggest that the STN/ZI lesion could boost the dopamine cell survival in the grafts by 2.6-fold compared with the control grafted-only group. Moreover, performance on the drug-induced rotation and the spontaneous behavior tests were ameliorated on the STN/ZI-lesioned group to a significantly greater extent than the grafted-only group. These data suggest that the STN/ZI partial lesion optimized the striatal environment, promoting an improvement in cell survival. Further studies are needed to see whether the synergy between STN modulation via deep brain stimulation and cell therapy might have clinical applications in the management of PD.
Disorders implicating the basal ganglia are often characterized by postural deficits, but little is known about the role of the basal ganglia in posture control. Using wireless multi-electrode recording, we measured single unit activity from GABAergic and dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra as unrestrained mice stood on an elevated platform while introducing continuous postural disturbances in the roll plane. We found two major types of neurons - those activated by tilt to the left side of the body and suppressed by tilt to the right side, and others activated by tilt to the right side and suppressed by tilt to the left side. Contrary to the prevailing view that the basal ganglia output from the substantia nigra pars reticulata either inhibits or disinhibits downstream structures in an all or none fashion, we showed that it continuously sends anti-phase signals to their downstream targets. We also demonstrated for the first time that nigrostriatal dopaminergic transmission is modulated by postural disturbances.
The dopaminergic projections to the basal ganglia have long been implicated in reward-guided behavior and decision-making, yet little is known about the role of the posterior pedunculopontine nucleus (pPPN), a major source of excitatory input to the mesolimbic dopamine system. Here we studied the contributions of the pPPN to decision-making under risk, using excitoxic lesions and reversible inactivation in rats. Rats could choose between two options - a small but certain reward on one lever; or a large but uncertain reward on the other lever. The overall payoff associated with each choice is the same, but the reward variance (risk) associated with the risky choice is much higher. In Experiment 1, we showed that excitotoxic lesions of the pPPN before training did not affect acquisition of lever pressing. But whereas the controls strongly preferred the safe choice, the lesioned rats did not. In Experiment 2, we found that muscimol inactivation of the pPPN also produced similar effects, but reversibly. These results show that permanent lesions or reversible inactivation of the pPPN both abolish risk aversion in decision-making.
We often face the challenge of simultaneously attending to multiple non-contiguous regions of space. There is ongoing debate as to how spatial attention is divided under these situations. Whereas, for several years, the predominant view was that humans could divide the attentional spotlight, several recent studies argue in favor of a unitary spotlight that rhythmically samples relevant locations. Here, this issue was addressed by the use of high-density electrophysiology in concert with the multifocal m-sequence technique to examine visual evoked responses to multiple simultaneous streams of stimulation. Concurrently, we assayed the topographic distribution of alpha-band oscillatory mechanisms, a measure of attentional suppression. Participants performed a difficult detection task that required simultaneous attention to two stimuli in contiguous (undivided) or non-contiguous parts of space. In the undivided condition, the classic pattern of attentional modulation was observed, with increased amplitude of the early visual evoked response and increased alpha amplitude ipsilateral to the attended hemifield. For the divided condition, early visual responses to attended stimuli were also enhanced, and the observed multifocal topographic distribution of alpha suppression was in line with the divided attention hypothesis. These results support the existence of divided attentional spotlights, providing evidence that the corresponding modulation occurs during initial sensory processing time-frames in hierarchically early visual regions, and that suppressive mechanisms of visual attention selectively target distracter locations during divided spatial attention.
We used focal brain lesions in rats to examine how dorsomedial (DMS) and dorsolateral (DLS) regions of the striatum differently contribute to response adaptation driven by the delivery or omission of rewards. Rats performed a binary choice task under two modes: one in which responses were rewarded on half of the trials regardless of choice; and another 'competitive' one in which only unpredictable choices were rewarded. In both modes, control animals were more likely to use a predictable lose-switch strategy than animals with lesions of either DMS or DLS. Animals with lesions of DMS presumably relied more on DLS for behavioural control, and generated repetitive responses in the first mode. These animals then shifted to a random response strategy in the competitive mode, thereby performing better than controls or animals with DLS lesions. Analysis using computational models of reinforcement learning indicated that animals with striatal lesions, particularly of the DLS, had blunted reward sensitivity and less stochasticity in the choice mechanism. These results provide further evidence that the rodent DLS is involved in rapid response adaptation that is more sophisticated than that embodied by the classic notion of habit formation driven by gradual stimulus-response learning.
Two main neuronal pathways connect facial whiskers to the somatosensory cortex in rodents: (i) the lemniscal pathway, which originates in the brainstem principal trigeminal nucleus and is relayed in the ventroposterior thalamic nucleus and (ii) the paralemniscal pathway, originating in the spinal trigeminal nucleus and relayed in the posterior thalamic nucleus. While lemniscal neurons are readily activated by whisker contacts, the contribution of paralemniscal neurons to perception is less clear. Here, we functionally investigated these pathways by manipulating input from the whisker pad in freely moving mice. We report that while lemniscal neurons readily respond to neonatal infraorbital nerve sectioning or whisker contacts in vivo, paralemniscal neurons do not detectably respond to these environmental changes. However, the paralemniscal pathway is specifically activated upon noxious stimulation of the whisker pad. These findings reveal a nociceptive function for paralemniscal neurons in vivo that may critically inform context-specific behaviour during environmental exploration.
Preclinical imaging with SPECT combined with CT or MRI is used more and more frequently and has proven to be very useful in translational research. In this article, an overview of current preclinical research applications and trends of SPECT combined with CT or MRI, mainly in tumour imaging and neuroscience imaging, is given and the advantages and disadvantages of the different approaches are described. Today SPECT and CT systems are often integrated into a single device (commonly called a SPECT/CT system), whereas at present combined SPECT and MRI is almost always carried out with separate systems and fiducial markers to combine the separately acquired images. While preclinical SPECT/CT is most widely applied in oncology research, SPECT combined with MRI (SPECT/MRI when integrated in one system) offers the potential for both neuroscience applications and oncological applications. Today CT and MRI are still mainly used to localize radiotracer binding and to improve SPECT quantification, although both CT and MRI have additional potential. Future technology developments may include fast sequential or simultaneous acquisition of (dynamic) multimodality data, spectroscopy, fMRI along with high-resolution anatomic MRI, advanced CT procedures, and combinations of more than two modalities such as combinations of SPECT, PET, MRI and CT all together. This will all strongly depend on new technologies. With further advances in biology and chemistry for imaging molecular targets and (patho)physiological processes in vivo, the introduction of new imaging procedures and promising new radiopharmaceuticals in clinical practice may be accelerated.





Lectin-functionalized, polyethylene glycol-block-poly-(d,l)-lactic-co-glycolic acid nanoparticles loaded with haloperidol were prepared with narrow size distributions and sizes &lt;135nm. The nanoparticles exhibited high Solanum tuberosum lectin (STL) conjugation efficiencies, encapsulation efficiencies, and drug loading capacities. The in vitro release of haloperidol was 6-8% of the loaded amount in endo-lysosomal conditions over 96h, demonstrating minimal drug leakage and the potential for the efficient drug transport to the targeted brain tissue. The haloperidol released upon erosion was successful in displacing [(3)H] N-propylnorapomorphine and binding to bovine striatal dopamine D2 receptors. Both haloperidol-loaded nanoparticle formulations were found to be highly effective at inducing catalepsy. Intranasal administration of STL-functionalized nanoparticles increased the brain tissue haloperidol concentrations by 1.5-3-fold compared to non-STL-functionalized particles and other routes of administration. This formulation demonstrates promise in the reduction of the drug dose necessary to produce a therapeutic effect with antipsychotic drugs for the treatment of schizophrenia.


Negative symptoms of schizophrenia remain an unmet clinical need as they are common, persistent, respond poorly to existing treatments and lead to disability. Blunted affect, alogia, asociality, anhedonia and avolition are regarded as key negative symptoms despite DSM-IV-TR specifying a more limited range. The key to development of improved therapies is improved animal models that mimic the human condition in terms of behaviour and pathology and that predict efficacy of novel treatments in patients. Accumulating evidence shows that NMDA receptor (NMDAR) antagonists mimic cognitive deficits of relevance to schizophrenia in animals, along with associated pathological changes. This review examines evidence for the ability of NMDAR antagonists to mimic anhedonia and asociality, two negative symptoms of schizophrenia, in animals. The use of various species, paradigms and treatment regimens are reviewed. We conclude that sub-chronic treatment with NMDAR antagonists, typically PCP, induces social withdrawal in animals but not anhedonia. NMDAR antagonists have further effects in paradigms such as motivational salience that may be useful for mimicking other aspects of negative symptoms but these require further development. Sub-chronic treatment regimens of NMDAR antagonists also have some neurobiological effects of relevance to negative symptoms. It is our view that a sub-chronic treatment regime with NMDAR antagonists, particularly PCP, with animals tested following a wash-out period and in a battery of tests to assess certain behaviours of relevance to negative symptoms and social withdrawal (the animal equivalent of asociality) is valuable. This will enhance our understanding of the psycho and neuropathology of specific negative symptom domains and allow early detection of novel pharmacological targets.
Recent attention has focused on negative symptoms as a target for new therapeutic approaches including pharmacological agents, medical devices, and psychosocial treatments. Each of these approaches requires an instrument for measuring the severity of negative symptoms as well as changes in severity over time. The instrument selected should provide coverage for the domains of negative symptoms; it should be sensitive to change; it should be reliable and relatively brief; and it should be useful for large international trials. These criteria were used to evaluate a number of older instruments including the Schedule for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), the Positive and Negative Symptoms Scale (PANSS), and the Negative Symptom Assessment Scale (NSA). Two newer scales, the Brief Negative Symptom Scale (BNSS) and the Clinical Assessment Interview for Negative Symptoms (CAINS) were developed following a National Institute of Mental Health consensus meeting and addressed some of the shortcomings of earlier instruments.
The past decade has witnessed a resurgence of interest in the development of novel pharmacological agents to treat the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. This review provides an overview of pharmacological approaches that have been evaluated as potential treatments and describes the emergence of several promising new approaches. First, we briefly describe recent methodological developments, including consensus-based clinical trial guidelines for patient selection criteria, symptom assessment, and trial duration. Next, we overview mono- and adjunctive-therapies that have been evaluated, including first- and second-generation antipsychotics, antidepressants, psychostimulants, molecules targeting cholinergic and glutamatergic systems, and hormones. We highlight the most promising pharmacological agents on the horizon, including glycine transporter-1 inhibitors, 7-nicotinic receptor positive allosteric modulators, and oxytocin, as well as non-pharmacological electromagnetic stimulation approaches. Further investigations, using optimal clinical trial design, hold considerable promise for discovering effective treatments for these functionally disabling symptoms in the near future.

Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain, with up to 40% of all synapses being glutamatergic. An altered glutamatergic transmission could play a critical role in working memory deficts observed in schizophrenia and could underline progressive changes such as grey matter loss throughout the brain. The aim of the study was to investigate if gray matter volume and working memory could be modulated by a genetic polymorphism related to glutamatergic function. Fifty schizophrenia patients underwent magnetic resonance and working memory testing outside of the scanner and were genotyped for rs4354668 EAAT2 polymorphism. Carriers of the G allele had lower gray matter volumes than T/T homozygote and worse working memory performance. Poor working memory performance was associated with gray matter reduction. Differences between the three genotypes are more relevant among patients showing poor performance at the 2-back task. Since glutamate abnormalities are known to be involved in excitotoxic processes, the decrease in cortical thickness observed in schizophrenia patients could be linked to an excess of extracellular glutamate. The differential effect of EAAT2 observed between good and poor performers suggests that the effect of EEAT2 on gray matter might reveal in the presence of a pathological process affecting gray matter.



Emotional memory consolidation has been associated with rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and recent evidence suggests that increased electroencephalogram spectral power in the theta (4-8Hz) frequency range indexes this activity. REM sleep has been implicated in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as well as in emotional adaption. In this cross-sectional study, thirty young healthy African American adults with trauma exposure were assessed for PTSD status using the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale. Two consecutive night polysomnographic (PSG) recordings were performed and data scored for sleep stages. Quantitative electroencephalographic spectral analysis was used to measure theta frequency components sampled from REM sleep periods of the second-night PSG recordings. Our objective was to compare relative theta power between trauma-exposed participants who were either resilient or haddeveloped PTSD. Results indicated higher right prefrontal theta power during the first and last REM periods in resilient participants compared with participants with PTSD. Right hemisphere prefrontal theta power during REM sleep may serve as a biomarker of the capacity for adaptive emotional memory processing among trauma-exposed individuals.
The neurobiological mechanisms of emotional memory processing can be investigated using classical fear conditioning as a model system, and evidence from multiple lines of research suggests that sleep influences consolidation of emotional memory. In rodents, some of this evidence comes from a common finding that sleep deprivation from 0 to 6h after fear conditioning training impairs processing of conditioned fear memory. Here, we show that during a 6-h session of sleep-wake (S-W) recording, immediately after a session of context-associated fear conditioning training, rats spent more time in wakefulness (W) and less time in slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. This context-associated fear conditioning training-induced reduction in SWS lasts for 2h, and the REM sleep reduction lasts throughout the entire 6-h post-training S-W recording period. Interestingly, these reductions in SWS and REM sleep during this 6-h period did not impair memory consolidation for context-associated fear conditioning. The results of this study show, for the first time, that lesions within the dorsal part of the subcoeruleus nucleus (SubCD), which were unintentionally caused by the implantation of bipolar recording electrodes, impair consolidation of context-associated fear conditioning memory. Together, the results of these experiments suggest that emotional memory processing associated with fear conditioning can be completed successfully within less than a normal amount of sleep, but it requires a structurally and functionally intact SubCD, an area in the brain stem where phasic pontine wave (P-wave) generating cells are located.

How emotions interact with cognitive processes has been a topic of growing interest in the last decades, as well as studies investigating the role of sleep in cognition. We review here evidence showing that sleep and emotions entertain privileged relationships. The literature indicates that exposure to stressful and emotional experiences can induce changes in the post-exposure sleep architecture, whereas emotional disturbances are likely to develop following sleep alterations. In addition, post-training sleep appears particularly beneficial for the consolidation of intrinsically emotional memories, suggesting that emotions modulate the off-line brain activity patterns subtending memory consolidation processes. Conversely, sleep contributes unbinding core memories from their affective blanket and removing the latter, eventually participating to habituation processes and reducing aversive reactions to stressful stimuli. Taken together, these data suggest that sleep plays an important role in the regulation and processing of emotions, which highlight its crucial influence on human's abilities to manage and respond to emotional information.
Gamma band activity participates in sensory perception, problem solving, and memory. This review considers recent evidence showing that cells in the reticular activating system (RAS) exhibit gamma band activity, and describes the intrinsic membrane properties behind such manifestation. Specifically, we discuss how cells in the mesopontine pedunculopontine nucleus, intralaminar parafascicular nucleus, and pontine SubCoeruleus nucleus dorsalis all fire in the gamma band range when maximally activated, but no higher. The mechanisms involve high-threshold, voltage-dependent P/Q-type calcium channels, or sodium-dependent subthreshold oscillations. Rather than participating in the temporal binding of sensory events as in the cortex, gamma band activity in the RAS may participate in the processes of preconscious awareness and provide the essential stream of information for the formulation of many of our actions. We address three necessary next steps resulting from these discoveries: an intracellular mechanism responsible for maintaining gamma band activity based on persistent G-protein activation, separate intracellular pathways that differentiate between gamma band activity during waking versus during REM sleep, and an intracellular mechanism responsible for the dysregulation in gamma band activity in schizophrenia. These findings open several promising research avenues that have not been thoroughly explored. What are the effects of sleep or REM sleep deprivation on these RAS mechanisms? Are these mechanisms involved in memory processing during waking and/or during REM sleep? Does gamma band processing differ during waking versus REM sleep after sleep or REM sleep deprivation?
Topically applied caffeine was recently identified as a promising candidate molecule for cataract prevention. Little is known about the pharmacokinetics for topically applied caffeine. Potential toxicity of 72mM caffeine on the ocular surface and the lens was qualitatively monitored and no toxic effects were observed. The concentration of caffeine was measured in the lens and the blood after topical application of 72mM caffeine to groups of 10 animals sacrificed at 30, 60, 90 and 120min after topical application. The lens concentration decreased throughout the observation period while the blood concentration increased up to 120min. Further, the concentration of caffeine in the lens and blood was measured 30min after topical application of caffeine, the concentration of caffeine being 0.72, 3.34, 15.51 and 72mM depending on group belonging, in groups of 10 animals. The caffeine concentration in lens and blood, respectively, increased proportionally to the caffeine concentration topically applied. The rat blood concentrations achieved were far below the equivalent threshold dose of FDA recommended daily dose for humans. This information is important for further development of caffeine eye drops for cataract prevention.
The molecular mechanisms of vascular leakage in diabetic macular edema and proliferative retinopathy are poorly understood, mainly due to the lack of reliable invivo models. The Akimba (Ins2(Akita)VEGF(+/-)) mouse model combines retinal neovascularization with hyperglycemia, and in contrast to other models, displays the majority of signs of advanced clinical diabetic retinopathy (DR). To study the molecular mechanism that underlies the breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier (BRB) in diabetic macular edema and proliferative diabetic retinopathy, we investigated the retinal vasculature of Akimba and its parental mice Kimba (trVEGF029) and Akita (Ins2(Akita)). Quantitative PCR, immunohistochemistry and fluorescein angiography were used to characterize the retinal vasculature with special reference to the inner BRB. Correlations between the degree of fluorescein leakage and retinal gene expression were tested by calculating the Spearman's correlation coefficient. Fluorescein leakage demonstrating BRB loss was observed in Kimba and Akimba, but not in Akita or wild type mice. In Kimba and Akimba mice fluorescein leakage was associated with focal angiogenesis and correlated significantly with Plvap gene expression. PLVAP is an endothelial cell-specific protein that is absent in intact blood-retinal barrier, but its expression significantly increases in pathological conditions such as DR. Furthermore, in Akimba mice BRB disruption was linked to decreased expression of endothelial junction proteins, pericyte dropout and vessel loss. Despite fluorescein leakage, no alteration in BRB protein levels or pericyte coverage was detected in retinas of Kimba mice. In summary, our data not only demonstrate that hyperglycemia sensitizes retinal vasculature to the effects of VEGF, leading to more severe microvascular changes, but also confirm an important role of PLVAP in the regulation of BRB permeability.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) evokes rapid deleterious and reparative glial reactions. Understanding the triggers for these responses is necessary for designing strategies to maximize repair. This study examined lesion formation and glial responses to vascular disruption and hemorrhage, a prominent feature of acute SCI. The specific role of hemorrhage is difficult to evaluate in trauma-induced lesions, because mechanical injury initiates many downstream responses. To isolate vascular disruption from trauma-induced effects, we created a novel and reproducible model of collagenase-induced intraspinal hemorrhage (ISH) and compared glial reactions between unilateral ISH and a hemi-contusion injury. Similar to contusion injuries, ISH lesions caused loss of myelin and axons and became filled with iron-laden macrophages. We hypothesized that intraspinal hemorrhage would also initiate reparative cellular responses including NG2+ oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) proliferation and oligodendrocyte genesis. Indeed, ISH induced OPC proliferation within 1d post-injury (dpi), which continued throughout the first week and resulted in a sustained elevation of NG2+ OPCs. ISH also caused oligodendrocyte loss within 4h that was sustained through 3d post-ISH. However, oligodendrogenesis, as determined by bromo-deoxyuridine (BrdU) positive oligodendrocytes, restored oligodendrocyte numbers by 7dpi, revealing that proliferating OPCs differentiated into new oligodendrocytes after ISH. The signaling molecules pERK1/2 and pSTAT3 were robustly increased acutely after ISH, with pSTAT3 being expressed in a portion of OPCs, suggesting that activators of this signaling cascade may initiate OPC responses. Aside from subtle differences in timing of OPC responses, changes in ISH tissue closely mimicked those in hemi-contusion tissue. These results are important for elucidating the contribution of hemorrhage to lesion formation and endogenous cell-mediated repair, and will provide the foundation for future studies geared toward identifying the role of specific blood components on injury and repair mechanisms. This understanding may provide new clinical targets for SCI and other devastating conditions such as intracerebral hemorrhage.

In some patients, intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) causes life-threatening elevations in intracranial pressure (ICP) arising from mass effect of the hematoma and edema. Accordingly, edema is a common endpoint to gauge treatment efficacy in rodent ICH models. Despite widespread reliance on edema, its relationship with ICP and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) is unknown. Blood pressure (BP) and ICP were measured by telemetry devices in rats after collagenase (&quot;severe&quot; - 0.3U, and &quot;moderate&quot; - 0.15U doses) or blood infusion (100L) into striatum (vs. saline infused shams). We compared epidural and intraparenchymal ICP readings (collagenase), evaluated CPP (collagenase), and compared models. Moderate (9.46mmHg4.72 SD, 3day average) and severe collagenase ICHs (10.793.50) significantly increased ICP versus shams (4.022.09), whereas blood infusion did not (5.370.55). The two monitoring locations gave similar readings after severe collagenase ICH. Increased ICP reduced CPP by ~7.5mmHg for days after the larger collagenase infusion. CPP averaged from 103-112mmHg in shams. Edema occurred in all ICH models and predicted ICP. However, ICP and CPP were only modestly changed even after severe ICH and edema. Thus, small changes in edema typically reported in the literature, which often use smaller bleeds than presently used, likely minimally affects ICP and CPP. Further research into the face validity of these models, endpoints, and their ability to evaluate therapeutics is needed.
Evidence implicates serotonergic input to spinal dorsal horn neurons in shifting the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) into a high functional output profile after spinal nerve ligation (SNL). We investigated the involvement of adaptor protein NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 (ND2) in NMDAR-phosphorylation and spinal hyperexcitability secondary to peripheral nerve injury. Immunofluorescence for ND2 was found in dorsal horn neurons immunopositive for NMDAR subunit NR1. Co-localization of ND2 with postsynaptic marker PSD-95 was significantly increased 60min after SNL (Rr 0.77 vs Rr 0.06 in sham controls; z=-242.85; p&lt;0.01 at Fisher's exact test). Western blot analyses confirmed ND2 up-regulation both in cytoplasmic (S2) and synaptic (P3) compartments (p&lt;0.01 at the Student's t test). SNL was followed by increased co-localization of ND2 with the phosphorylated form (serine 896) of NR1 (pNMDA). Spinal superfusion with ND2 inhibitor rotenone prevented up-regulation of ND2 (Rr 0.06 after rotenone vs Rr 0.78 in vehicle-treated controls, z=-253.22, p&lt;0.01) and pNR1 in P3. C fiber-evoked dorsal horn field potentials were increased 60min after SNL by superfusion with NMDA agonist cis-ACPD at 100nM (p&lt;0.01 at the Bonferroni test), however cis-ACPD was effective only at 10M following prior administration of rotenone. Rotenone also abolished enhancement of evoked potentials induced by simultaneous stimulation of NMDA and 5-HR2B receptors in uninjured rats. Increased postsynaptic up-regulation of ND2/pNMDAR 60min after SNL was prevented by prior administration of selective 5-HT2B antagonist SB204741. These results support a pivotal role for ND2 in coupling serotonergic input to NMDAR-activation during neuropathic pain.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system (CNS) considered to be a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease. Mucosally administered antigens induce regulatory T cells that secrete anti-inflammatory cytokines at the anatomic site where the mucosally administered Ag is located. We have previously reported in a mouse model of stroke that nasal treatment with MOG35-55 peptide reduces ischemic infarct size and improves behavior, by inducing IL-10-secreting T cells. We have also demonstrated that an experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice leads to a relapsing progressive disease and that brain lesions can be visualized noninvasively by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Here, we investigated whether nasal treatment with 25g of MOG35-55 after the first attack affects clinical progression and MRI outcome in the NOD model. We found that nasal MOG35-55 treatment administered three times after the first attack and then weekly reduced both the peak clinical disease score and clinical score during remission. Pathology revealed less infiltration of cells and reduction in white-matter damage as measured by Luxol blue staining in treated animals. This model is unique in that there are lesions in the corpus callosum, external capsule, fimbria, internal capsule and thalamus, which is analogous to what is observed in MS. MRI of individual animals using fractional anisotropy (FA) and T1-gadolinum (T1-Gd) imaging was able to identify lesions in all of these anatomic areas, and we found lower levels of brain pathology by MRI in treated mice with both methods. Our results indicate a beneficial effect of nasal MOG on relapsing-progressive EAE and demonstrate that non-invasive MRI imaging may be used to monitor treatment of ongoing disease in this model for testing new therapies for MS.
Following traumatic peripheral nerve injury reinnervation of denervated targets may be achieved by regeneration of injured axons and by collateral sprouting of neighbor undamaged axons. Experimental models commonly use sciatic nerve injuries to assess nerve regeneration and neuropathic pain, but behavioral tests for evaluating sensory recovery often disregard the pattern of hindpaw innervation. This may lead to confounding attribution of recovery of sensory responses to improvement in sciatic nerve regeneration instead of collateral reinnervation by the undamaged saphenous nerve. We used a standardized methodology to assess the separate contribution of collateral and regenerative skin reinnervation on sensory responses. Section and suture of the sciatic nerve induced loss of sensibility in the lateral and central areas of the injured paw, but nociceptive responses rapidly recovered by expansion of the intact saphenous innervation territory. We used electronic Von Frey and Plantar test devices to measure mechanical and thermal withdrawal thresholds in specific sites of the injured paw: lateral site innervated by the sciatic nerve, medial site that remained innervated by the saphenous nerve, and central site originally innervated by the sciatic nerve but affected by saphenous sprouting. After sciatic section, signs of early hyperalgesia developed in medial and central paw areas due to saphenous sprouting and expansion. The regenerating sciatic nerve fibers reached the paw at 3-4weeks and a late mechanical hyperalgesia was observed at the lateral site. Immunohistochemical staining of sensory fibers innervating the medial and lateral areas revealed a different pattern of skin reinnervation. Hypersensitivity in the intact saphenous nerve area was paralleled by early fiber sprout growth in the subepidermal plexus, but not entering the epidermis. On the other side, late sciatic hyperalgesia was accompanied by gradual skin reinnervation after 4weeks. The standardization of algesimetry testing in sciatic nerve injury models, as proposed in this study, provides a suitable model for studying in parallel neuropathic pain and sensory nerve regeneration processes. Our results also indicate that collateral sprouting and axonal regeneration contribute differently in the initiation and maintenance of neuropathic pain.
The role of type IIA receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs), which includes LAR, RPTP and RPTP, in the nervous system is becoming increasingly recognized. Evidence supports a significant role for these RPTPs during the development of the nervous system as well as after injury, and mutations in RPTPs are associated with human disease. However, a major open question is the nature of the ligands that interact with type IIA RPTPs in the adult brain. Candidates include several different proteins as well as the glycosaminoglycan chains of proteoglycans. In order to investigate this problem, we used a receptor affinity probe assay with RPTP-AP fusion proteins on sections of adult mouse brain and to cultured neurons. Our results demonstrate that the major binding sites for RPTP in adult mouse brain are on neurons and are not proteoglycan GAG chains, as RPTP binding overlaps with the neuronal marker NeuN and was not significantly altered by treatments which eliminate chondroitin sulfate, heparan sulfate, or both. We also demonstrate no overlap of binding of RPTP with perineuronal nets, and a unique modulation of RPTP binding to brain by divalent cations. Our data therefore point to neuronal proteins, rather than CSPGs, as being the ligands for RPTP in the adult, uninjured brain.


Glioma is the most common brain tumor. For the more aggressive form, glioblastoma, standard treatment includes surgical resection, irradiation with adjuvant temozolomide and, on recurrence, experimental chemotherapy. However, the survival of patients remains poor. There is a critical need for minimally invasive biomarkers for diagnosis and as measures of response to therapeutic interventions. Glioma shed extracellular vesicles (EVs), which invade the surrounding tissue and circulate within both the cerebrospinal fluid and the systemic circulation. These tumor-derived EVs and their content serve as an attractive source of biomarkers. In this review, we discuss the current state of the art of biomarkers for glioma with emphasis on their EV derivation.
Rabies is a fatal viral encephalitis which can be effectively prevented by prophylactic measures. The currently available cell culture vaccines used for rabies prophylaxis are expensive for use by the standard intramuscular route of administration. In the last 3 decades, intradermal (ID) routes of vaccination using lesser amounts of vaccine as compared to that used for standard intramuscular vaccination have been used extensively in some Asian countries which has reduced the economic burden of rabies prophylaxis and also contributed in achieving a decline in the incidence of human rabies. ID vaccination is based on sound immunological principles and has been found to be safe and immunogenic. New short duration regimens to further economize the cost and enhance patient compliance, and novel non-invasive devices for ID vaccine delivery are being evaluated. Considering the success of ID rabies vaccination in Asian countries, its implementation in rabies endemic African countries should be encouraged.
Secretion of proteins and neurotransmitters from large dense core vesicles (LDCVs) is a highly regulated process. Adrenal LDCV formation involves the granin proteins chromogranin A (CgA) and chromogranin B (CgB); CgA- and CgB-derived peptides regulate catecholamine levels and blood pressure. We investigated function of the granin VGF (nonacronymic) in LDCV formation and the regulation of catecholamine levels and blood pressure. Expression of exogenous VGF in nonendocrine NIH 3T3 fibroblasts resulted in the formation of LDCV-like structures and depolarization-induced VGF secretion. Analysis of germline VGF-knockout mouse adrenal medulla revealed decreased LDCV size in noradrenergic chromaffin cells, increased adrenal norepinephrine and epinephrine content and circulating plasma epinephrine, and decreased adrenal CgB. These neurochemical changes in VGF-knockout mice were associated with hypertension. Germline knock-in of human VGF1-615 into the mouse Vgf locus rescued the hypertensive knockout phenotype, while knock-in of a truncated human VGF1-524 that lacks several C-terminal peptides, including TLQP-21, resulted in a small but significant increase in systolic blood pressure compared to hVGF1-615 mice. Finally, acute and chronic administration of the VGF-derived peptide TLQP-21 to rodents decreased blood pressure. Our studies establish a role for VGF in adrenal LDCV formation and the regulation of catecholamine levels and blood pressure.

Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene, RSV) is a polyphenolic compound present in a variety of plant species (including grapes) that produces a myriad of biological activities including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and neuroprotective effects. In this study, we investigate the effects of resveratrol on the basal and glutamate-stimulated expression and activity of a tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) that plays neuromodulatory or neurotoxic roles in many different neurological situations. Under basal conditions, resveratrol decreased the tPA expression and activity without affecting the tPA mRNA level in rat primary cortical neurons. RSV induced AMPK phosphorylation and inhibited mTOR phosphorylation. Inhibition of AMPK phosphorylation using compound C prevented resveratrol-induced down-regulation of tPA activity. This suggested that AMPK/mTOR-dependent translational inhibition contributes to the down-regulation of the tPA. Under glutamate-stimulated conditions of rat primary cortical neurons, tPA activity and expression were increased along with increased tPA mRNA expression but afterward treatment of RSV inhibited the glutamate-induced increase in tPA activity and expression and tPA mRNA expression. Glutamate stimulation induced activation of Akt and MAPK pathways as well as mTOR which were inhibited by RSV. Interestingly, the Erk pathway inhibitor U0126, but neither PI3K-Akt inhibitor LY294002 nor p38 inhibitor SB203580, mimicked the inhibitory action of RSV on glutamate-induced tPA up-regulation. This suggested the essential role of Erk in the transcriptional up-regulation of tPA expression, which is targeted by RSV. Glutamate stimulation induced neuronal cell death as determined by PI staining and MTT assay. However, RSV protected the cultured rat primary cortical neurons from glutamate-induced cell death as paralleled with the changes in tPA expression. These results suggested that RSV can modulate tPA activity under basal and stimulated conditions by both translational and transcriptional mechanisms. The regulation of the tPA by RSV provides additional therapeutic targets on top of the growing number of molecular substrates of RSV's action in the brain.
Hypoxia in the tumor microenvironment triggers differential signaling pathways for tumor survival. In this study, we characterize the involvement of hypoxia and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in the antineoplastic mechanism of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) gene delivery in a mouse B16-F10 melanoma model in vivo and in vitro. Histological analysis revealed increased TUNEL-positive cells and enhanced hypoxic activities in melanoma treated with adenovirus encoding POMC (Ad-POMC) but not control vector. Because the apoptotic cells were detected mainly in regions distant from blood vessels, it was hypothesized that POMC therapy might render melanoma cells vulnerable to hypoxic insult. Using a hypoxic chamber or cobalt chloride (CoCl2), we showed that POMC gene delivery elicited apoptosis and caspase-3 activation in cultured B16-F10 cells only under hypoxic conditions. The apoptosis induced by POMC gene delivery was associated with elevated ROS generation in vitro and in vivo. Blocking ROS generation using the antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine abolished the apoptosis and caspase-3 activities induced by POMC gene delivery and hypoxia. We further showed that POMC-derived melanocortins, including -MSH, -MSH, and ACTH, but not -MSH, contributed to POMC-induced apoptosis and ROS generation during hypoxia. To elucidate the source of ROS generation, application of the NADPH oxidase inhibitor diphenyleneiodonium attenuated -MSH-induced apoptosis and ROS generation, implicating the proapoptotic role of NADPH oxidase in POMC action. Of the NADPH oxidase isoforms, only Nox4 was expressed in B16-F10 cells, and Nox4 was also elevated in Ad-POMC-treated melanoma tissues. Silencing Nox4 gene expression with Nox4 siRNA suppressed the stimulatory effect of -MSH-induced ROS generation and cell apoptosis during hypoxia. In summary, we demonstrate that POMC gene delivery suppressed melanoma growth by inducing apoptosis, which was at least partly dependent on Nox4 upregulation.
In light of the wide use of cryotherapy and its potential negative effects on postural stability, little is known about how postural sway is affected, particularly when the whole lower limb is immersed. The purpose of this study was to analyze the influence of cryotherapy on postural sway in healthy males. Twenty-six subjects were randomly assigned into two intervention groups: control (tepid water at 26C) or ice (cold water at 11C). Postural sway was measured through the center of pressure (COP) position while they stood on a force plate during bipedal (70s) and unipedal (40s) conditions before and after the subjects were immersed in a water tub up to the umbilical level for 20min. COP standard deviation (SD) and COP velocity were analyzed in the anterior-posterior (AP) and medial-lateral (ML) directions. Statistical analysis showed that in the bipedal condition cryotherapy increased the COP SD and COP velocity in the ML direction. During the unipedal condition, a higher COP velocity in the AP and ML directions was also reported. Our findings indicate that cryotherapy by immersing the whole lower limb should be used with caution before engaging in challenging postural control activities.



Satellite glial cells (SGCs) surrounding primary sensory neurons are similar to astrocytes of the central nervous system in that they buffer the extracellular environment via potassium and calcium channels and express the intermediate filament glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Peripheral nerve injury induces a reactive state in SGCs that includes SGC proliferation, increased SGC/SGC coupling via gap junctions, decreased inward rectifying potassium channel 4.1 (Kir 4.1) expression and increased expression of GFAP and the common neurotrophin receptor, p75NTR. In contrast, neuronal p75NTR expression, normally detected in 80% of adult rat sensory neurons, decreases in response to peripheral axotomy. Given the differential regulation of p75NTR expression in neurons versus SGCs with injury, we hypothesized that reduced signaling via neuronal p75NTR contributes to the induction of a reactive state in SGCs. We found that reducing neuronal p75NTR protein expression in uninjured sensory neurons by intrathecal subarachnoid infusion of p75NTR-selective anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotides for one week was sufficient to induce a &quot;reactive-like&quot; state in the perineuronal SGCs akin to that normally observed following peripheral nerve injury. This reactive state included significantly increased SGC p75NTR, GFAP and gap junction protein connexin-43 protein expression, increased numbers of SGCs surrounding individual sensory neurons and decreased SGC Kir 4.1 channel expression. Collectively, this supports the tenet that reductions in target-derived trophic support leading to, or as a consequence of, reduced neuronal p75NTR expression plays a critical role in switching the SGC to a reactive state.
We report a case of midbrain malformation characterized by right deviation of the medulla oblongata associated with elongation and ectasia of the basilar and left vertebral arteries in a patient with a long history of migraine-like headache with autonomic symptoms.


Manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI) is a powerful tool for in vivo tract tracing or functional imaging of the central nervous system. However Mn(2+) may be toxic at high levels. In this study, we addressed the impact of Mn(2+) on mouse hippocampal neurons (HN) and neuron-like N2a cells in culture, using several approaches. Both HN and N2a cells not exposed to exogenous MnCl2 were shown by synchrotron X-ray fluorescence to contain 5 mg/g Mn. Concentrations of Mn(2+) leading to 50% lethality (LC50) after 24 h of incubation were much higher for N2a cells (863 mM) than for HN (90 mM). The distribution of Mn(2+) in both cell types exposed to Mn(2+) concentrations below LC50 was perinuclear whereas that in cells exposed to concentrations above LC50 was more diffuse, suggesting an overloading of cell storage/detoxification capacity. In addition, Mn(2+) had a cell-type and dose-dependent impact on the total amount of intracellular P, Ca, Fe and Zn measured by synchrotron X-ray fluorescence. For HN neurons, immunofluorescence studies revealed that concentrations of Mn(2+) below LC50 shortened neuritic length and decreased mitochondria velocity after 24 h of incubation. Similar concentrations of Mn(2+) also facilitated the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore in isolated mitochondria from rat brains. The sensitivity of primary HN to Mn(2+) demonstrated here supports their use as a relevant model to study Mn(2+) -induced neurotoxicity.
Perceptual richness, a defining feature of episodic memory, emerges from the reliving of multimodal sensory experiences. Although the importance of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) to episodic memory retrieval is well documented, the features that determine its engagement are not well characterized. The current study assessed the relationship between MTL function and episodic memory's perceptual richness. We designed a laboratory memory task meant to capture the complexity of memory for life episodes, while manipulating memory's perceptual content. Participants encoded laboratory episodes with rich (film clips) and impoverished (written narratives) perceptual content that were matched for other characteristics such as personal significance, emotionality and story content. At retrieval, participants were probed to describe the stories' perceptual features and storyline. Participants also recalled autobiographical memories (AMs) in a comparison condition. We compared the performance of patients with unilateral medial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) and healthy controls to assess how damage to the MTL affects retrieval in these conditions. We observed an overall decrease in detail count in the mTLE group, along with a disproportionate deficit in perceptual details that was most acute in the AM and the perceptually enriched film clip conditions. Our results suggest that the impaired sense of reliving the past that accompanies MTL insult is mediated by a paucity of perceptual episodic memory details. We also introduce a new protocol that successfully mimics naturalistic memories while benefiting from the experimental control provided by using laboratory stimuli.
The hypothalamus and the endocannabinoid system are important players in the regulation of energy homeostasis. In a previous study, we described the ultrastructural distribution of CB1 receptors in GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic terminals of the dorsomedial region of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH). However, the specific localization of the enzymes responsible for the synthesis of the two main endocannabinoids in the hypothalamus is not known. The objective of this study was to investigate the precise subcellular distribution of N-arachidonoylphospatidylethanolamine phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD) and diacylglycerol lipase  (DAGL-) in the dorsomedial VMH of wild-type mice by a high resolution immunogold electron microscopy technique. Knock-out mice for each enzyme were used to validate the specificity of the antibodies. NAPE-PLD was localized presynaptically and postsynaptically but showed a preferential distribution in dendrites. DAGL- was mostly postsynaptic in dendrites and dendritic spines. These anatomical results contribute to a better understanding of the endocannabinoid modulation in the VMH nucleus. Furthermore, they support the idea that the dorsomedial VMH displays the necessary machinery for the endocannabinoid-mediated modulation of synaptic transmission of brain circuitries that regulate important hypothalamic functions such as feeding behaviors.
The senescence-accelerated-prone mouse 8 (SAMP8) has been proposed as a suitable, naturally derived animal model for Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the current study, we focus on the problem whether SAMP8 mice show abnormal behavioral and neuropathological signs before they present the characteristic of AD. Our results demonstrated that given the presence of the senescent, behavioral and neuropathological characteristics, the &quot;middle-aged&quot; SAMP8 mice appear to be a suitable and naturally derived animal model for MCI basic research. There is relatively less evidence that androgen may be involved in the pathogenesis of AD. We determined testosterone (T) levels of SAMR1 and SAMP8 mice and found that the marked age-related decrease in serum androgen levels may be one of the risk factors for Alzheimer's dementia. We also evaluated the interventional effect on MCI phase by dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in male SAMP8 mice and found that timely and appropriate androgen intervention can postpone the onset and improve the symptoms of dementia.
Recent imaging studies have demonstrated functional brain network changes in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Eigenvector centrality (EC) is a graph analytical measure that identifies prominent regions in the brain network hierarchy and detects localized differences between patient populations. This study used voxel-wise EC mapping (ECM) to analyze individual whole-brain resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans in 39 AD patients (age 67  8) and 43 healthy controls (age 69  7). Between-group differences were assessed by a permutation-based method. Associations of EC with biomarkers for AD pathology in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores were assessed using Spearman correlation analysis. Decreased EC was found bilaterally in the occipital cortex in AD patients compared to controls. Regions of increased EC were identified in the anterior cingulate and paracingulate gyrus. Across groups, frontal and occipital EC changes were associated with pathological concentrations of CSF biomarkers and with cognition. In controls, decreased EC values in the occipital regions were related to lower MMSE scores. Our main finding is that ECM, a hypothesis-free and computationally efficient analysis method of functional MRI (fMRI) data, identifies changes in brain network organization in AD patients that are related to cognition and underlying AD pathology. The relation between AD-like EC changes and cognitive performance suggests that resting-state fMRI measured EC is a potential marker of disease severity for AD.
Cognitive dysfunction is common in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Saccadic eye movement paradigms such as antisaccades (AS) can sensitively interrogate cognitive function, in particular, the executive and attentional processes of response selection and inhibition. Although we have previously demonstrated significant deficits in the generation of AS in MS patients, the neuropathological changes underlying these deficits were not elucidated. In this study, 24 patients with relapsing-remitting MS underwent testing using an AS paradigm. Rank correlation and multiple regression analyses were subsequently used to determine whether AS errors in these patients were associated with: (i) neurological and radiological abnormalities, as measured by standard clinical techniques, (ii) cognitive dysfunction, and (iii) regionally specific cerebral white and gray-matter damage. Although AS error rates in MS patients did not correlate with clinical disability (using the Expanded Disability Status Score), T2 lesion load or brain parenchymal fraction, AS error rate did correlate with performance on the Paced Auditory Serial Addition Task and the Symbol Digit Modalities Test, neuropsychological tests commonly used in MS. Further, voxel-wise regression analyses revealed associations between AS errors and reduced fractional anisotropy throughout most of the cerebellum, and increased mean diffusivity in the cerebellar vermis. Region-wise regression analyses confirmed that AS errors also correlated with gray-matter atrophy in the cerebellum right VI subregion. These results support the use of the AS paradigm as a marker for cognitive dysfunction in MS and implicate structural and microstructural changes to the cerebellum as a contributing mechanism for AS deficits in these patients.
Image-guided navigation systems dedicated to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have been recently developed and offer the possibility to visualize directly the anatomical structure to be stimulated. Performing navigated TMS requires a perfect knowledge of cortical anatomy, which is very variable between subjects. This study aimed at providing a detailed description of sulcal and gyral anatomy of motor cortical regions with special interest to the inter-individual variability of sulci. We attempted to identify the most stable structures, which can serve as anatomical landmarks for motor cortex mapping in navigated TMS practice. We analyzed the 3D reconstruction of 50 consecutive healthy adult brains (100 hemispheres). Different variants were identified regarding sulcal morphology, but several anatomical structures were found to be remarkably stable (four on dorsoventral axis and five on rostrocaudal axis). These landmarks were used to define a grid of 12 squares, which covered motor cortical regions. This grid was used to perform motor cortical mapping with navigated TMS in 12 healthy subjects from our cohort. The stereotactic coordinates (x-y-z) of the center of each of the 12 squares of the mapping grid were expressed into the standard Talairach space to determine the corresponding functional areas. We found that the regions whose stimulation produced almost constantly motor evoked potentials mainly correspond to the primary motor cortex, with rostral extension to premotor cortex and caudal extension to posterior parietal cortex. Our anatomy-based approach should facilitate the expression and the comparison of the results obtained in motor mapping studies using navigated TMS.
Recent fMRI studies of the human primary somatosensory cortex have been able to differentiate the cortical representations of different fingertips at a single-subject level. These studies did not, however, investigate the expected overlap in cortical activation due to the stimulation of different fingers. Here, we used an event-related design in six subjects at 7 Tesla to explore the overlap in cortical responses elicited in S1 by vibrotactile stimulation of the five fingertips. We found that all parts of S1 show some degree of spatial overlap between the cortical representations of adjacent or even nonadjacent fingertips. In S1, the posterior bank of the central sulcus showed less overlap than regions in the post-central gyrus, which responded to up to five fingertips. The functional properties of these two areas are consistent with the known layout of cytoarchitectonically defined subareas, and we speculate that they correspond to subarea 3b (S1 proper) and subarea 1, respectively. In contrast with previous fMRI studies, however, we did not observe discrete activation clusters that could unequivocally be attributed to different subareas of S1. Venous maps based on T2*-weighted structural images suggest that the observed overlap is not driven by extra-vascular contributions from large veins.
Potential sources of multisensory influences on low-level sensory cortices include direct projections from sensory cortices of different modalities, as well as more indirect feedback inputs from higher order multisensory cortical regions. These multiple architectures may be functionally complementary, but the exact roles and inter-relationships of the circuits are unknown. Using a fully balanced context manipulation, we tested the hypotheses that: (1) feedforward and lateral pathways subserve speed functions, such as detecting peripheral stimuli. Multisensory integration effects in this context are predicted in peripheral fields of low-level sensory cortices. (2) Slower feedback pathways underpin accuracy functions, such as object discrimination. Integration effects in this context are predicted in higher-order association cortices and central/foveal fields of low-level sensory cortex. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare the effects of central versus peripheral stimulation on audiovisual integration, while varying speed and accuracy requirements for behavioral responses. We found that interactions of task demands and stimulus eccentricity in low-level sensory cortices are more complex than would be predicted by a simple dichotomy such as our hypothesized peripheral/speed and foveal/accuracy functions. Additionally, our findings point to individual differences in integration that may be related to skills and strategy. Overall, our findings suggest that instead of using fixed, specialized pathways, the exact circuits and mechanisms that are used for low-level multisensory integration are much more flexible and contingent upon both individual and contextual factors than previously assumed.
Cognitive dysfunction is common in multiple sclerosis (MS). However, the relationship between white matter (WM) damage and cognition remains insufficiently clear. This study investigates the extent and severity of WM diffusion abnormalities in MS patients and relations with cognition. Diffusion tensor imaging scans were obtained in 131 MS patients (88 women, 6 years postdiagnosis) and 49 age-matched controls (29 women). Patient groups were equal in terms of disease duration, disability, and WM lesion volume. Fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), axial diffusivity (AD), and radial diffusivity (RD) were compared between groups. Post hoc analyses calculated the spatial extent and severity of diffusion abnormalities to relate these to cognitive performance. In controls, 31% of WM voxels showed higher FA in men; therefore, all patient analyses were within-sex. The extent of diffusion changes was higher in male patients than in female patients for all parameters (FA: 24% in women, 53% in men), as was the severity of changes (FA: Z = -0.18 in women, Z = -0.41 in men). Especially the extent of FA abnormalities was strongly related to cognitive performance in all patients (r = -0.42, P &lt; 0.0001). Regionally, thalamic decreases in FA were especially correlated with cognitive performance. Cognitively impaired patients showed greater extent and severity on all diffusion parameters compared to cognitively preserved patients. The WM of male patients was both more extensively and also more severely affected than that of female patients. The extent of WM FA changes, especially in the thalamus, was associated with cognitive performance in this cohort of early MS patients.
The conventional model of language-related brain structure describing the arcuate fasciculus as a key white matter tract providing a direct connection between Wernicke's region and Broca's area has been called into question. Specifically, the inferior precentral gyrus, possessing both primary motor (Brodmann Area [BA] 4) and premotor cortex (BA 6), has been identified as a potential alternative termination. The authors initially localized cortical sites involved in language using measurement of event-related gamma-activity on electrocorticography (ECoG). The authors then determined whether language-related sites of the temporal lobe were connected, via white matter structures, to the inferior frontal gyrus more tightly than to the precentral gyrus. The authors found that language-related sites of the temporal lobe were far more likely to be directly connected to the inferior precentral gyrus through the arcuate fasciculus. Furthermore, tractography was a significant predictor of frontal language-related ECoG findings. Analysis of an interaction between anatomy and tractography in this model revealed tractrography to have the highest predictive value for language-related ECoG findings of the precentral gyrus. This study failed to support the conventional model of language-related brain structure. More feasible models should include the inferior precentral gyrus as a termination of the arcuate fasciculus. The exact functional significance of direct connectivity between temporal language-related sites and the precentral gyrus requires further study.
Neuroimaging studies investigating the voluntary (top-down) control of attention largely agree that this process recruits several frontal and parietal brain regions. Since most studies used attention tasks requiring several higher-order cognitive functions (e.g. working memory, semantic processing, temporal integration, spatial orienting) as well as different attentional mechanisms (attention shifting, distractor filtering), it is unclear what exactly the observed frontoparietal activations reflect. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study investigated, within the same participants, signal changes in (1) a &quot;Simple Attention&quot; task in which participants attended to a single melody, (2) a &quot;Selective Attention&quot; task in which they simultaneously ignored another melody, and (3) a &quot;Beep Monitoring&quot; task in which participants listened in silence for a faint beep. Compared to resting conditions with identical stimulation, all tasks produced robust activation increases in auditory cortex, cross-modal inhibition in visual and somatosensory cortex, and decreases in the default mode network, indicating that participants were indeed focusing their attention on the auditory domain. However, signal increases in frontal and parietal brain areas were only observed for tasks 1 and 2, but completely absent for task 3. These results lead to the following conclusions: under most conditions, frontoparietal activations are crucial for attention since they subserve higher-order cognitive functions inherently related to attention. However, under circumstances that minimize other demands, nonspatial auditory attention in the absence of stimulation can be maintained without concurrent frontal or parietal activations.
We systematically investigated the effects of cathodal and anodal Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (CtDCS, AtDCS) on the electric activity of primary motor cortex during a motor task. High-density electroencephalography was used to define the spatial diffusion of tDCS after effects. Ten healthy subjects performed a finger tapping task with the right hand before and after three separate sessions of 20 minutes of Sham, AtDCS or CtDCS over left primary motor cortex (M1). During movement, we found an increment of low alpha band Event-Related Desynchronization (ERD) in bilateral central, frontal areas and in the left inferior parietal region, as well as an increment of beta ERD in fronto-central and parieto-occipital regions, after AtDCs compared to Sham and CtDCS. In the rest pre-movement period, after Sham as well as AtDCS, we documented an increment of low alpha band power over the course of pre- and post-stimulation recording sessions, localized in the sensorimotor and parieto-occipital regions. On the contrary, after CtDCS no increment of low alpha power was found. Finally beta band coherence among signals from left sensorimotor cortex and activity of bilateral parietal, occipital and right frontal regions was higher after AtDCS compared with Sham condition. Similarly, theta coherence with parietal and frontal regions was enhanced after AtDCS. We hypothesize that the local modulation of membrane polarization, as well as long-lasting synaptic modification induced by tDCS over M1, could result in changes of both local band power and functional architecture of the motor network.
Differential core symptoms and treatment responses are associated with the pure versus comorbid forms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, comorbidity has largely been unaccounted for in neuroimaging studies of ADHD. We used diffusional kurtosis imaging to investigate gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) microstructure of children and adolescents with ADHD (n = 22) compared to typically developing controls (TDC, n = 27) and examined whether differing developmental patterns are related to comorbidity. The ADHD group (ADHD-mixed) consisted of subgroups with and without comorbidity (ADHD-comorbid, n = 11; ADHD-pure, n = 11, respectively). Age-related changes and group differences in cerebral microstructure of the ADHD-mixed group and each ADHD subgroup were compared to TDC. Whole-brain voxel-based analyses with mean kurtosis (MK) and mean diffusivity (MD) metrics were conducted to probe GM and WM. Tract-based spatial statistics analyses of WM were performed with MK, MD, fractional anisotropy, and directional (axial, radial) kurtosis and diffusivity metrics. ADHD-pure patients lacked significant age-related changes in GM and WM microstructure that were observed globally in TDC and had significantly greater WM microstructural complexity than TDC in bilateral frontal and parietal lobes, insula, corpus callosum, and right external and internal capsules. Including ADHD patients with diverse comorbidities in analyses masked these findings. A distinct atypical age-related trajectory and aberrant regional differences in brain microstructure were detected in ADHD without comorbidity. Our results suggest that different phenotypic manifestations of ADHD, defined by the presence or absence of comorbidity, differ in cerebral microstructural markers.
Acoustic Coordinated Reset (CR) neuromodulation is a patterned stimulation with tones adjusted to the patient's dominant tinnitus frequency, which aims at desynchronizing pathological neuronal synchronization. In a recent proof-of-concept study, CR therapy, delivered 4-6 h/day more than 12 weeks, induced a significant clinical improvement along with a significant long-lasting decrease of pathological oscillatory power in the low frequency as well as  band and an increase of the  power in a network of tinnitus-related brain areas. As yet, it remains unclear whether CR shifts the brain activity toward physiological levels or whether it induces clinically beneficial, but nonetheless abnormal electroencephalographic (EEG) patterns, for example excessively decreased  and/or . Here, we compared the patients' spontaneous EEG data at baseline as well as after 12 weeks of CR therapy with the spontaneous EEG of healthy controls by means of Brain Electrical Source Analysis source montage and standardized low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography techniques. The relationship between changes in EEG power and clinical scores was investigated using a partial least squares approach. In this way, we show that acoustic CR neuromodulation leads to a normalization of the oscillatory power in the tinnitus-related network of brain areas, most prominently in temporal regions. A positive association was found between the changes in tinnitus severity and the normalization of  and  power in the temporal, parietal, and cingulate cortical regions. Our findings demonstrate a widespread CR-induced normalization of EEG power, significantly associated with a reduction of tinnitus severity.
Humans vary substantially in their ability to learn new motor skills. Here, we examined inter-individual differences in learning to play the piano, with the goal of identifying relations to structural properties of white matter fiber tracts relevant to audio-motor learning. Non-musicians (n = 18) learned to perform three short melodies on a piano keyboard in a pure audio-motor training condition (vision of their own fingers was occluded). Initial learning times ranged from 17 to 120 min (mean  SD: 62  29 min). Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging was used to derive the fractional anisotropy (FA), an index of white matter microstructural arrangement. A correlation analysis revealed that higher FA values were associated with faster learning of piano melodies. These effects were observed in the bilateral corticospinal tracts, bundles of axons relevant for the execution of voluntary movements, and the right superior longitudinal fasciculus, a tract important for audio-motor transformations. These results suggest that the speed with which novel complex audio-motor skills can be acquired may be determined by variability in structural properties of white matter fiber tracts connecting brain areas functionally relevant for audio-motor learning.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a common genetic condition associated with cognitive and social dysfunction as well as abnormal brain structure. The pathophysiology underlying social dysfunction in NF1 is poorly understood. Here, we investigate for the first time whether there is a broad deficit of social cognition in NF1 and explore the neural correlates for these deficits. Twenty-nine adults with NF1 and 30 controls were administered an ecologically based test of social cognition, The Awareness of Social Inference Test (TASIT), to identify deficits in emotion recognition and sarcasm detection. We employed voxel-based morphometry in a subset of NF1 patients (n = 16) and 16 additional controls to examine the neural correlates of these deficits. Results indicated that adults with NF1 were impaired in their ability to understand paradoxical sarcasm and their capacity to recognize emotion, particularly anger. TASIT performance was not associated with measures of attention, visuospatial skills or executive function. Relative to controls, gray matter (GM) volume within the right superior temporal gyrus (STG) was decreased, after controlling for total brain volume. Decreased volume in this region was significantly associated with social cognitive deficits in adults with NF1. We conclude that patients with NF1 are at high risk for a social cognitive deficit and provide evidence for a neuroanatomical basis for this deficit; GM volumetric reductions in the right STG. These findings improve our understanding of the nature of social interaction impairments in NF1 and add to the growing body of literature indicating the STG as a critical brain region for social cognition.
Multivariate regression is increasingly used to study the relation between fMRI spatial activation patterns and experimental stimuli or behavioral ratings. With linear models, informative brain locations are identified by mapping the model coefficients. This is a central aspect in neuroimaging, as it provides the sought-after link between the activity of neuronal populations and subject's perception, cognition or behavior. Here, we show that mapping of informative brain locations using multivariate linear regression (MLR) may lead to incorrect conclusions and interpretations. MLR algorithms for high dimensional data are designed to deal with targets (stimuli or behavioral ratings, in fMRI) separately, and the predictive map of a model integrates information deriving from both neural activity patterns and experimental design. Not accounting explicitly for the presence of other targets whose associated activity spatially overlaps with the one of interest may lead to predictive maps of troublesome interpretation. We propose a new model that can correctly identify the spatial patterns associated with a target while achieving good generalization. For each target, the training is based on an augmented dataset, which includes all remaining targets. The estimation on such datasets produces both maps and interaction coefficients, which are then used to generalize. The proposed formulation is independent of the regression algorithm employed. We validate this model on simulated fMRI data and on a publicly available dataset. Results indicate that our method achieves high spatial sensitivity and good generalization and that it helps disentangle specific neural effects from interaction with predictive maps associated with other targets.


This study assesses the patterns of gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) damage in patients with Parkinson's disease and mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) compared with healthy controls and cognitively unimpaired PD patients (PD-Cu). Three-dimensional T1-weighted and diffusion tensor (DT) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were obtained from 43 PD patients and 33 healthy controls. Cognition was assessed using a neuropsychological battery. Tract-based spatial statistics was applied to compare DT MRI indices between groups on a voxel-by-voxel basis. Voxel-based morphometry was performed to assess GM atrophy. Thirty PD patients were classified as MCI. Compared with healthy controls, PD-Cu and PD-MCI patients did not have GM atrophy. No region of WM damage was found in PD-Cu patients when compared with healthy controls. Relative to healthy controls and PD-Cu patients, PD-MCI patients showed a distributed pattern of WM abnormalities in the anterior and superior corona radiata, genu, and body of the corpus callosum, and anterior inferior fronto-occipital, uncinate, and superior longitudinal fasciculi, bilaterally. Subtle cognitive decline in PD is associated with abnormalities of frontal and interhemispheric WM connections, and not with GM atrophy. DT MRI might contribute to the identification of structural changes in PD-MCI patients prior to the development of dementia.
Multi-centre data repositories like the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) offer a unique research platform, but pose questions concerning comparability of results when using a range of imaging protocols and data processing algorithms. The variability is mainly due to the non-quantitative character of the widely used structural T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images. Although the stability of the main effect of Alzheimer's disease (AD) on brain structure across platforms and field strength has been addressed in previous studies using multi-site MR images, there are only sparse empirically-based recommendations for processing and analysis of pooled multi-centre structural MR data acquired at different magnetic field strengths (MFS). Aiming to minimise potential systematic bias when using ADNI data we investigate the specific contributions of spatial registration strategies and the impact of MFS on voxel-based morphometry in AD. We perform a whole-brain analysis within the framework of Statistical Parametric Mapping, testing for main effects of various diffeomorphic spatial registration strategies, of MFS and their interaction with disease status. Beyond the confirmation of medial temporal lobe volume loss in AD, we detect a significant impact of spatial registration strategy on estimation of AD related atrophy. Additionally, we report a significant effect of MFS on the assessment of brain anatomy (i) in the cerebellum, (ii) the precentral gyrus and (iii) the thalamus bilaterally, showing no interaction with the disease status. We provide empirical evidence in support of pooling data in multi-centre VBM studies irrespective of disease status or MFS.
To generate imaging biomarkers from disease-specific brain networks, we have implemented a general toolbox to rapidly perform scaled subprofile modeling (SSM) based on principal component analysis (PCA) on brain images of patients and normals. This SSMPCA toolbox can define spatial covariance patterns whose expression in individual subjects can discriminate patients from controls or predict behavioral measures. The technique may depend on differences in spatial normalization algorithms and brain imaging systems. We have evaluated the reproducibility of characteristic metabolic patterns generated by SSMPCA in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We used [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET scans from patients with PD and normal controls. Motor-related (PDRP) and cognition-related (PDCP) metabolic patterns were derived from images spatially normalized using four versions of SPM software (spm99, spm2, spm5, and spm8). Differences between these patterns and subject scores were compared across multiple independent groups of patients and control subjects. These patterns and subject scores were highly reproducible with different normalization programs in terms of disease discrimination and cognitive correlation. Subject scores were also comparable in patients with PD imaged across multiple PET scanners. Our findings confirm a very high degree of consistency among brain networks and their clinical correlates in PD using images normalized in four different SPM platforms. SSMPCA toolbox can be used reliably for generating disease-specific imaging biomarkers despite the continued evolution of image preprocessing software in the neuroimaging community. Network expressions can be quantified in individual patients independent of different physical characteristics of PET cameras.
The majority of the patients enrolled in the rivaroxaban vs. warfarin in Japanese patients with atrial fibrillation (J-ROCKET AF) trial had hypertension. In this subgroup analysis, we investigated differences in the safety and efficacy of rivaroxaban and warfarin in subjects with and without hypertension. The baseline blood pressure (BP) measurements of patients with hypertension in the rivaroxaban and warfarin groups were 130/77mmHg and 131/77mmHg, respectively, whereas those of patients without hypertension were 123/74mmHg and 124/73mmHg, respectively. The incidence rates of the principal safety outcomes in the rivaroxaban and warfarin groups were 18.39% per year and 16.81% per year, respectively, among patients with baseline hypertension (hazard ratio (HR): 1.10; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.84-1.45) and 16.71% per year and 15.00% per year, respectively, among patients without hypertension at baseline (HR: 1.14; 95% CI: 0.66-1.97), indicating no significant interaction (P=0.933). The incidence rates of the primary efficacy endpoints in the rivaroxaban group and the warfarin group were 0.54% per year and 2.24% per year, respectively, in patients without baseline hypertension (HR: 0.25; 95% CI: 0.03-2.25), and 1.45% per year and 2.71% per year, respectively, in patients with baseline hypertension (HR: 0.54; 95% CI: 0.25-1.16), indicating no significant interaction (P=0.509). In conclusion, the safety and efficacy profile of rivaroxaban was similar to that of warfarin, independent of baseline hypertensive status.
Over the past several decades, electroencephalogram (EEG)-based brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) have attracted attention from researchers in the field of neuroscience, neural engineering, and clinical rehabilitation. While the performance of BCI systems has improved, they do not yet support widespread usage. Recently, visual and auditory BCI systems have become popular because of their high communication speeds, little user training, and low user variation. However, building robust and practical BCI systems from physiological and technical knowledge of neural modulation of visual and auditory brain responses remains a challenging problem. In this paper, we review the current state and future challenges of visual and auditory BCI systems. First, we describe a new taxonomy based on the multiple access methods used in telecommunication systems. Then, we discuss the challenges of translating current technology into real-life practices and outline potential avenues to address them. Specifically, this review aims to provide useful guidelines for exploring new paradigms and methodologies to improve the current visual and auditory BCI technology.
In approximately one-third of cases, patients with mastocytosis can display various disabling general and neuropsychological symptoms. General signs may have a major impact on quality of life. Neurologic symptoms are less frequent. In a majority of cases, the pathophysiology of these symptoms is not known but could be linked to tissular mast cell infiltration, mast cell mediator release, or both. Treatments aiming at reducing mast cell number and/or stabilizating mast cells may be useful. Preliminary results suggest that treatment with kinase inhibitors may improve symptoms of depression and cognitive impairment.
Mast cells were first identified by Paul Ehrlich in 1878, when he was still a medical student. Many fundamental aspects of mast cell ontogeny have been elucidated since Ehrlich's first identification. Demonstration of mast cell derivation from bone marrow precursors could be established in 1977 when Kitamura's group first showed reconstitution of mast cells in mast cell-deficient mice by the adaptive transfer of wild type bone marrow and indicated that these cells were of hematopoietic origin. It is now definitively established that development of mast cells in bone marrow occurs along the myeloid pathway. However, several aspects need further clarification. In particular, identification and chemical characterization of growth factors expressing mast cell differentiating properties and the relationship between mast cell and basophils developmental pathways.
Although the concept of stress has earned a bad reputation, it is important to recognize that the adaptive purpose of a physiological stress response is to promote survival during fightorflight. While long-term stress is generally harmful, short-term stress can be protective as it prepares the organism to deal with challenges. This review discusses the immune effects of biological stress responses that can be induced by psychological, physiological, or physical (including exercise) stressors. We have proposed that short-term stress is one of the nature's fundamental but under-appreciated survival mechanisms that could be clinically harnessed to enhance immunoprotection. Short-term (i.e.,lasting for minutes to hours) stressexperienced during immune activation enhances innate/primary and adaptive/secondary immune responses. Mechanisms of immuno-enhancement include changes in dendritic cell, neutrophil, macrophage, and lymphocyte trafficking, maturation, and function as well as local and systemic production of cytokines. In contrast, long-term stress suppresses or dysregulates innate and adaptive immune responses by altering the Type 1-Type 2 cytokine balance, inducing low-grade chronic inflammation, and suppressing numbers, trafficking, and function of immunoprotective cells. Chronic stress mayalso increase susceptibility to some types of cancer by suppressing Type 1 cytokines and protective T cellsand increasing regulatory/suppressor T cell function. Here, we classify immune responses as being protective, pathological, or regulatory, and discuss &quot;good&quot; versus &quot;bad&quot; effects of stress on health. Thus, short-term stress can enhance the acquisition and/or expression of immunoprotective (wound healing, vaccination, anti-infectious agent, anti-tumor) or immuno-pathological (pro-inflammatory, autoimmune) responses. In contrast, chronic stress can suppress protective immune responses and/or exacerbate pathological immune responses. Studies such as the ones discussed here could provide mechanistic targets and conceptual frameworks for pharmacological and/or biobehavioral interventions designed to enhance the effects of &quot;good&quot; stress, minimize the effects of &quot;bad&quot; stress, andmaximally promote health and healing.
This report describes the process of psychotherapy for a 7-y-old boy who witnessed the gruesome murder of his mother by the father. Expressive therapy techniques such as play, art and storytelling were used to help the child emote, achieve independence and emotional maturity. The child was seen as an in-patient for 3mo on a daily basis, followed by weekly and subsequently bi-monthly follow ups. During the ward stay, aggression towards other children and grandmother had reduced significantly. The child was able to verbalize the irreversibility and inevitability of death, and had developed healthy ways to resolve the grief. In the subsequent follow ups, although some behavior problems persisted, gains from therapy generalized to help him deal with challenges of real life, such as a constantly lurking fear of the father returning from prison.

In the past decades, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have been shown to exert several immunological effects, such as reduced lymphocyte proliferation, alteration of cytokine secretion and induction of apoptosis. Based on these effects, SSRIs were proposed as drugs for the treatment of autoimmune pathologies and graft-versus-host disease. This review summarizes preclinical and clinical evidence supporting a role for SSRIs in autoimmune diseases and graft-versus-host disease, and discusses what is known about the mechanism underlying these effects.
To clarify the role of HDACs in erythropoiesis, expression, activity and function of class I (HDAC1, HDAC2, HDAC3) and class IIa (HDAC4, HDAC5) HDACs during in vitro maturation of human erythroblasts were compared. During erythroid maturation, expression of HDAC1, HDAC2 and HDAC3 remained constant and activity and GATA1 association (its partner of the NuRD complex), of HDAC1 increased. By contrast, HDAC4 content drastically decreased and HDAC5 remained constant in content but decreased in activity. In erythroid cells, pull down experiments identified the presence of a novel complex formed by HDAC5, GATA1, EKLF and pERK which was instead undetectable in cells of the megakaryocytic lineage. With erythroid maturation, association among HDAC5, GATA1 and EKLF persisted but levels of pERK sharply decreased. Treatment of erythroleukemic cells with inhibitors of ERK phosphorylation reduced by &gt;90% the total and nuclear content of HDAC5, GATA1 and EKLF, suggesting that ERK phosphorylation is required for the formation of this complex. Based on the function of class IIa HDACs as chaperones of other proteins to the nucleus and the erythroid-specificity of HDAC5 localization, this novel HDAC complex was named nuclear remodeling shuttle erythroid (NuRSERY). Exposure of erythroid cells to the class II-selective HDAC inhibitor (HDACi) APHA9 increased /(+) globin expression ratios (Mai et al., 2007), suggesting that NuRSERY may regulate globin gene expression. In agreement with this hypothesis, exposure of erythroid cells to APHA9 greatly reduced the association among HDAC5, GATA1 and EKLF. Since exposure to APHA9 did not affect survival rates or p21 activation, NuRSERY may represent a novel, possibly less toxic, target for epigenetic therapies of hemoglobinopaties and other disorders.
Primary Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder with a heterogeneous clinical presentation. Common presenting features include both muscle and neurological dysfunction. Muscle abnormalities can improve, both clinically and biochemically following CoQ10 supplementation, however neurological symptoms are only partially ameliorated. At present, the reasons for the refractory nature of the neurological dysfunction remain unknown. In order to investigate this at the biochemical level we evaluated the effect of CoQ10 treatment upon a previously established neuronal cell model of CoQ10 deficiency. This model was established by treatment of human SH-SY5Y neuronal cells with 1 mM para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) which induced a 54% decrease in cellular CoQ10 status. CoQ10 treatment (2.5 M) for 5 days significantly (p&lt;0.0005) decreased the level of mitochondrial superoxide in the CoQ10 deficient neurons. In addition, CoQ10 treatment (5 M) restored mitochondrial membrane potential to 90% of the control level. However, CoQ10 treatment (10 M) was only partially effective at restoring mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) enzyme activities. ETC complexes II/III activity was significantly (p&lt;0.05) increased to 82.5% of control levels. ETC complexes I and IV activities were restored to 71.1% and 77.7%, respectively of control levels. In conclusion, the results of this study have indicated that although mitochondrial oxidative stress can be attenuated in CoQ10 deficient neurons following CoQ10 supplementation, ETC enzyme activities appear partially refractory to treatment. Accordingly, treatment with &gt;10 M CoQ10 may be required to restore ETC enzyme activities to control level. Accordingly, these results have important implication for the treatment of the neurological presentations of CoQ10 deficiency and indicate that high doses of CoQ10 may be required to elicit therapeutic efficacy.
During development, the hippocampus undergoes numerous changes in its cell morphology and cyto- and myelo-architecture that begin during the fetal period and continue after birth. We investigated the developmental changes occurring in healthy fetal (20-32 gestational weeks) and post-natal human hippocampi (from 1 day to adulthood) by combining high-resolution 7 T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and histological and immunohistochemical analyses in order to compare variations in signal intensity with cyto- and myeloarchitectural organization. During fetal period the intensity of the T2-weighted images was related to the cell density and the subregions of Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus, characterized by densely packed neurons, were recognizable as hypointense areas. The inverse correlation between MRI signal intensity and cell density was visualized by line profile results. At the age of two post-natal weeks, the low MRI signal was still related to cell density, although thin myelinated fibers were observed in hypointense regions such as the alveus and stratum lacunosum-moleculare. The myelin content subsequently increases until the complete hippocampal myeloarchitecture is reached in adulthood. Comparison of the MRI findings and corresponding histological sections indicated that the differences in the T2-weighted images between the age of seven years and adulthood reflect the increasing density of myelinated fibers. These results provide useful information concerning the interpretation of MRI signals and the developmental changes visualized by in vivo MRI at lower field strengths, and may be used as a reference for the future use of high spatial resolution MRI in clinical practice.
Physical exercise is known to induce a range of transient or sustained psychophysiological effects including stress reduction and improvements in cognitive performance. Previous studies in the area have focused on adults and there has been little research on the relationship between physical exercise and brain function in young children. This study examined the relationship between cortical oscillations, arousal and cognitive performance following physical exercise in 5/6-year preschoolers. Participants completed two counterbalanced sessions of 45 min exercise or a control condition. Electroencephalography (EEG) was measured at rest with the eyes closed and the eyes open, as well as during cognitive performance in a task requiring attention and reaction speed. This was done before (PRE) and after (POST) each session once the participants' heart rate returned to within 10% of pre-exercise values. The percentage change in spectral power from PRE to POST () differed significantly between conditions. Specifically,  alpha-1 power differed significantly between exercise (+5%) and the control condition (-5.9%) with the eyes-open, but not with the eyes-closed. This effect did not significantly differ between cortical regions (i.e., it was global). Further,  beta-1 and  beta-2 power differed significantly between exercise (beta-1: -10.8%, beta-2: -23.8%) and the control condition (beta-1: -4.3%, beta-2: -5.3%) at frontal sites independent of visual input. Despite significant changes in resting state EEG, cognitive performance and task-related EEG remained unaffected by exercise. The results were interpreted to indicate cortical inhibition and attenuation of arousal in response to visual stimulation following exercise in young children.



Excessive weight gain is a major metabolic side effect of second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) in the treatment of schizophrenia. Ghrelin is an orexigenic hormone secreted mainly from the stomach, which can induce weight gain and hyperphagia through regulating neuropeptides at the hypothalamus. Accumulating evidence implicates a relationship between ghrelin signalling and SGA-induced hyperphagia and weight gain. We report that olanzapine (a SGA with high weight gain liability) potently and time-dependently up-regulate ghrelin and ghrelin signalling, leading to hyperphagia and weight gain in female Sprague-Dawley rats, an action reversed by i.c.v. injection of a ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1a) antagonist. These findings indicate a crucial role of ghrelin signalling in hyperphagia induced by olanzapine, supporting the notion that GHS-R1a antagonist may be useful for pharmacological treatment of SGA-induced weight gain resulted from hyperphagia.
Compelling evidence has shown that the effects of antidepressants, increasing extracellular serotonin and noradrenaline as a primary mechanism of action, involve neuroplastic and neurotrophic mechanisms. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to play a key role in neuroplasticity and synaptic function, as well as in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders and the mechanism of action of antidepressants. The expression of BDNF is mediated by the transcription of different mRNAs derived by the splicing of one of the eight 5' non-coding exons with the 3' coding exon (in rats). The transcription of each non-coding exon is driven by unique and different promoters. We generated a gene reporter system based on hippocampal and cortical neuronal cultures, in which the transcription of luciferase is regulated by BDNF promoters I, II, IV or by cAMP response element (CRE), to investigate the activation of selected promoters induced by monoaminergic antidepressants and by serotonin or noradrenaline agonists. We found that incubation with fluoxetine or reboxetine failed to induce any activation of BDNF promoters or CRE. On the other hand, the incubation of cultures with selective agonists of serotonin or noradrenaline receptors induced a specific and distinct profile of activation of BDNF promoters I, II, IV and CRE, suggesting that the monoaminergic input, absent in dissociated cultures, is essential for the modulation of BDNF expression. In summary, we applied a rapidly detectable and highly sensitive reporter gene assay to characterize the selective activation profile of BDNF and CRE promoters, through specific and different pharmacological stimuli.
Disturbances in both circadian rhythms and oxidative stress systems have been implicated in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder (BD), yet no studies have investigated the relationship between these systems in BD. We studied the impact of circadian rhythm disruption on lipid damage in 52 depressed or euthymic BD females, while controlling for age, severity of depressive symptoms and number of psychotropic medications, compared to 30 healthy controls. Circadian rhythm disruption was determined by a self-report measure (Biological Rhythm Interview of Assessment in Neuropsychiatry; BRIAN), which measures behaviours such as sleep, eating patterns, social rhythms and general activity. Malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were measured as a proxy of lipid peroxidation. We also measured the activity of total and extracellular superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione S-transferase (GST). Multiple linear regressions showed that circadian rhythm disturbance was independently associated with increased lipid peroxidation in females with BD (p &lt; 0.05). We found decreased extracellular SOD (p &lt; 0.05), but no differences in total SOD, CAT or GST activity between bipolar females and controls. Circadian rhythms were not associated with lipid peroxidation in healthy controls, where aging was the only significant predictor. These results suggest an interaction between the circadian system and redox metabolism, in that greater disruption in daily rhythms was associated with increased lipid peroxidation in BD only. Antioxidant enzymes have been shown to follow a circadian pattern of expression, and it is possible that disturbance of sleep and daily rhythms experienced in BD may result in decreased antioxidant defence and therefore increased lipid peroxidation. This study provides a basis for further investigation of the links between oxidative stress and circadian rhythms in the neurobiology of BD.
The brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) Val66Met polymorphism has been associated with abnormalities of synaptic plasticity in animal models, and abnormalities in motor cortical plasticity have also been described in humans using transcranial direct current stimulation. No study has yet been done on plasticity in non-motor regions, and the effect of two Met alleles (i.e. 'Met dose') is not well understood. We studied the effect of the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism on the after-effects of transcranial direct current stimulation and tetanic auditory stimulation in 65 subjects (23; Val66Val, 22; Val66Met and 20; Met66Met genotypes). In the first session, motor evoked potentials (MEP) were recorded under stereotaxic guidance for 90 min after 9 min of anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS). In the second session, auditory-evoked potentials (AEP) were recorded before and after 2 min of auditory 13 Hz tetanic stimulation. There was a difference in MEP facilitation post-TDCS comparing Met carriers with non-Met carriers, with Met carriers having a modest late facilitation at 30-90 min. There was no difference in responses between Val66Met genotype and Met66Met genotype subjects. Tetanic auditory stimulation also produced late facilitation of N1-P2 AEP at 25 min, but there was no apparent effect of genetic status. This study indicates that Met66Met carriers behave like Val66Met carriers for TDCS-induced plasticity, and produce a late facilitation of MEPs. Auditory cortical plasticity was not affected by the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism. This study sheds light on the differences between auditory and motor cortical plasticity and the role of the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism.
Objectives:Rats subjected to a free-choice high-fat high-sugar (fcHFHS) diet persistently overeat, exhibit increased food-motivated behavior and become overtly obese. Conversely, several studies using a non-choice (nc) high-energy diet showed only an initial increase in food intake with unaltered or reduced food-motivated behavior. This raises the question of the importance of choice in the persistence of hyperphagia in rats on a fcHFHS diet.Subjects:Meal patterns, food intake and body weight gain were studied in male Wistar rats on free-choice diets with fat and/or sugar and in rats on nc diets with fat and sugar (custom made with ingredients similar to the fcHFHS diet).Results:Rats on a ncHFHS diet initially overconsumed, but reduced intake thereafter, whereas rats on a fcHFHS diet remained hyperphagic. Because half of the sugar intake in the fcHFHS group occurred during the inactive period, we next determined whether sugar intake during the light phase was a necessary requirement for hyperphagia, by restricting access to liquid sugar to either the light or dark period with unlimited access to fat and chow. Results showed that hyperphagia occurred irrespective of the timing of sugar intake. Meal pattern analysis revealed consumption of larger but fewer meals in the ncHFHS group, as well as the fcHF group. Interestingly, meal number was increased in all rats drinking liquid sugar (whether on a fcHFHS or a fcHS diet), whereas a compensatory decrease in meal size was only observed in the fcHS group, but not the fcHFHS group.Conclusion:We hereby show the importance of choice in the observation of fcHFHS diet-induced hyperphagia, which results in increases in meal number due to sugar drinking without any compensatory decrease in meal size. We thus provide a novel dietary model in rats that mimics important features of human overconsumption that have been ignored in rodent models of obesity.
To assess if mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variants are associated with mutations in BRCA susceptibility genes and to investigate the possible role of mitochondrial alterations as susceptibility markers in familial breast cancer (BC), 22 patients with or without BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations, 14 sporadic BC patients and 20 healthy subjects were analyzed. In the D-loop and in the MTND4 region, variants significantly associated with BRCA1 carriers were identified. Moreover, examination of mitochondrial haplogroups revealed X as the most significantly frequent haplogroup in BRCA1 carriers (P=0.005), and H as significantly linked to BRCA2 carriers (P=0.05). Our data suggest the involvement of the mitochondrial genome in the pathogenetic and molecular mechanism of familial BC disease.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a clinically heterogeneous condition. Although its pathophysiology is not completely understood, neurophysiologic and neuroimaging data have disclosed functional abnormalities in the networks linking frontal cortex, supplementary motor and premotor areas, striatum, globus pallidus, and thalamus (CSPT circuits). By means of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) it is possible to test inhibitory and excitatory circuits within motor cortex. Previous studies on OCD patients under medication have demonstrated altered cortical inhibitory circuits as tested by TMS. On the other hand there is growing evidence suggesting an alteration of sensory-motor integration. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to evaluate sensory-motor integration (SAI and LAI), intracortical inhibition, and facilitation in drug-nave OCD patients, using TMS. In our sample, we have demonstrated a significant SAI reduction in OCD patients when compared to a cohort of healthy individuals. SAI abnormalities may be related to a dysfunction of CSPT circuits which are involved in sensory-motor integration processes. Thus, it can be speculated that hypofunctioning of such system might impair the ability of OCD patients to suppress internally triggered intrusive and repetitive movements and thoughts. In conclusion, our data suggest that OCD may be considered as a sensory motor disorder where a dysfunction of sensory-motor integration may play an important role in the release of motor compulsions.
Matrix metalloproteinase-9 is a proteolytic enzyme capable of degrading proteins of the muscle extracellular matrix. Systemic levels of MMP-9 or its inhibitor, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1), have the potential to serve as blood markers of exercise-induced muscle damage. The purpose of this study was to determine if an eccentrically-dominated task, downhill running (DHR), produces changes in plasma MMP-9 or TIMP-1 and examine the relationship between MMP-9/TIMP-1 levels and indirect indicators of muscle damage. Subjects were sedentary (SED, n=12) or had a history of concentrically-biased training (CON, n=9). MMP-9 and TIMP-1 were measured before (Pre-Ex), immediately after (Post-Ex), and 1-, 2-, 4-, and 7-days post-DHR (-10), and compared to discomfort ratings, creatine kinase activity and strength loss. At 1-day Post-Ex, discomfort increased (5.6  7.8 to 45.5  19.9 mm; 0-100 mm scale), strength decreased (-6.9  1.6%) and CK increased (162.9  177.2%). MMP-9 was modestly but significantly increased at Post-Ex in both CONC and SED (32.7  33.6%) and at 4-days in SED (66.9  88.1%), Individual responses were variable, however. There were no correlations between MMPs and discomfort ratings, plasma CK or strength. While plasma MMP-9 changes may be detectable in the systemic circulation after DHR, they are small and do not correspond to other markers of damage.





The goal of this Special Section is to explore the ways that investigation of reward function can shed light on the development and pathophysiology of psychopathology. Reward function provides a promising starting point for clinical affective neuroscience research because, thanks to the extensive literature on the neural mechanisms of addiction, the functional neuroanatomy, cellular mechanisms, and genetic contributions to reward circuitry have been well delineated (see Russo &amp; Nestler, 2013, for details). (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Response inhibition, defined as the ability to withhold a response, is considered to be a core deficit in various mental illnesses. Measures of response inhibition have been used to define functional deficits, as markers of genetic risk, in neuroimaging studies, and for diagnostic purposes in these disorders. However, the magnitude of the deficit across psychopathologies has not been systematically assessed. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of performance on commonly used measures of the ability to withhold a response: go/no-go task, Conners' continuous performance task (CCPT), and sustained attention to response task (SART). The primary variable of interest in each of these tasks was commission errors (CE), which provides an index of one's ability to correctly withhold a response. In addition, we examined omission errors (OE) which are an index of sustained attention; and mean reaction time (RT; MRT). Three-hundred and 18 studies in 11 different psychiatric disorders met inclusion criteria. Weighted mean effect sizes (ESs) were calculated to measure the magnitude of the deficit. In general, we found low-to-medium ESs for commission errors ranging from g = -0.10 for anxiety disorder to medium ESs of g = 0.52 for bipolar disorder. Small-to-medium deficits in withholding were found in various disorders. Results indicate that deficits in withholding are insufficiently sensitive or specific to be used individually as a diagnostic measure or biomarker in most disorders. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) show high comorbidity. The following questions were addressed regarding their specific symptoms: What is the factor structure of ASD and ADHD symptoms, to what degree do different symptom domains cluster together, to what extent are these domains caused by the same genetic and environmental influences, and what is the best model of their co-occurrence? A population-based twin cohort of over 17,000 9- and 12-year-olds were assessed using the Autism-Tics, AD/HD, and other Comorbidities parental interview inventory. Principal component analyses were conducted, and symptom domain clustering was assessed. Four multivariate twin models were compared. Factors split into three ASD (social impairments, communication impairments, and restricted repetitive behaviors and interests), and three ADHD (inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity) symptom domains. Some ASD-ADHD symptom domain combinations clustered together often, although others not at all. A two-factor common pathway model fit the data, suggesting that ASD and ADHD symptom domains tap into separate &quot;ASD&quot; and &quot;ADHD&quot; latent factors that showed high genetic overlap. All subdomains also showed significant specific genetic and environmental influences, reflecting the etiological heterogeneity both within and between ASD and ADHD. These findings support the conceptual distinction of ASD and ADHD, and demonstrate the considerable natural co-occurrence of particular ASD/ADHD symptom domains. The results imply that more children with 1 condition show features of the other condition than show complete comorbidity. Emphasis on symptom co-occurrence, rather than complete comorbidity between disorders, may help focus clinical approaches and advance molecular genetic research. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
This case study of the development and implementation of an opioid overdose prevention program is based on an actual clinic's experience, but information about the clinic, including details of implementation and outcome measures, has been changed. Four experts reflect on the medical, administrative, peer-support, community, and evaluation aspects of this case. This discussion highlights challenges and important considerations in the creation of programs to address the ever-increasing risk for opioid overdose.
Community-based opioid overdose prevention programs (OOPPs) that include the distribution of naloxone have increased in response to alarmingly high overdose rates in recent years. This systematic review describes the current state of the literature on OOPPs, with particular focus on the effectiveness of these programs. We used systematic search criteria to identify relevant articles, which we abstracted and assigned a quality assessment score. Nineteen articles evaluating OOPPs met the search criteria for this systematic review. Principal findings included participant demographics, the number of naloxone administrations, percentage of survival in overdose victims receiving naloxone, post-naloxone administration outcome measures, OOPP characteristics, changes in knowledge pertaining to overdose responses, and barriers to naloxone administration during overdose responses. The current evidence from nonrandomized studies suggests that bystanders (mostly opioid users) can and will use naloxone to reverse opioid overdoses when properly trained, and that this training can be done successfully through OOPPs.




In this study, a previously evaluated guided Internet-based cognitive behavior therapy for social anxiety disorder (SAD) was adapted for mobile phone administration (mCBT). The treatment was compared with a guided self-help treatment based on interpersonal psychotherapy (mIPT). The treatment platform could be accessed through smartphones, tablet computers, and standard computers. A total of 52 participants were diagnosed with SAD and randomized to either mCBT (n=27) or mIPT (n=25). Measures were collected at pre-treatment, during the treatment, post-treatment and 3-month follow-up. On the primary outcome measure, the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale - self-rated, both groups showed statistically significant improvements. However, mCBT performed significantly better than mIPT (between group Cohen's d=0.64 in favor of mCBT). A larger proportion of the mCBT group was classified as responders at post-treatment (55.6% versus 8.0% in the mIPT group). We conclude that CBT for SAD can be delivered using modern information technology. IPT delivered as a guided self-help treatment may be less effective in this format.
This study evaluated the properties of Swedish versions of self-report measures of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), with emphasis on the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R). Survey data from adult survivors 1, 3, and 6 years after the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami (n=1506) included the IES-R (from which the IES-6 was derived) and the 12-item General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12). The PTSD Checklist (PCL) was included in one survey. A structured clinical interview was performed after 6 years (n=142). Factor analyses of the IES-R and PCL indicated that a dysphoric-arousal model provided good fit invariant across assessments. Both measures were accurate in excluding PTSD while all measures provided poorer positive predictive values. The IES-R, but not the IES-6 and GHQ-12, evidenced stability across assessments. In conclusion, the Swedish IES-R and PCL are sound measures of chronic PTSD, and the findings illustrate important temporal aspects of PTSD assessment.
Over the past decade the popularity of foreign medical aid has increased and gained notoriety. Operation Walk is a philanthropic organization dedicated to improving the ambulatory potential of patients in developing countries by providing free surgical treatment for patients who otherwise lack access to care of debilitating bone and joint conditions. During Operation Walk Mooresville's 2013 trip to Guatemala 40 patients prospectively completed a Likert Scale style survey. The 63-question survey assessed patient impressions and concerns regarding the care they receive as part of itinerant surgical aid trips. Mean scores were calculated and then concerns were ranked accordingly. We are aware of no other investigation assessing these sorts of patient centered perspectives for international surgical aid trips.
Narcolepsy is a lifelong sleep disorder related to hypocretin deficiency resulting from a specific loss of hypocretin-producing neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area. The disease is thought to be autoimmune due to a strong association with HLA-DQB1*06:02. In 2009 the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the H1N1 2009 flu pandemic (A/H1N1PDM09). In response to this, the Swedish vaccination campaign began in October of the same year, using the influenza vaccine Pandemrix(). A few months later an excess of narcolepsy cases was observed. It is still unclear to what extent the vaccination campaign affected humoral autoimmunity associated with narcolepsy. We studied 47 patients with narcolepsy (6-69 years of age) and 80 healthy controls (3-61 years of age) selected after the Pandemrix vaccination campaign. The first aim was to determine antibodies against A/H1N1 and autoantibodies to Tribbles homolog 2 (TRIB2), a narcolepsy autoantigen candidate as well as to GAD65 and IA-2 as disease specificity controls. The second aim was to test if levels and frequencies of these antibodies and autoantibodies were associated with HLA-DQB1*06:02. Invitro transcribed and translated [(35)S]-methionine and -cysteine-labeled influenza A virus (A/California/04/2009/(H1N1)) segment 4 hemagglutinin was used to detect antibodies in a radiobinding assay. Autoantibodies to TRIB2, GAD65 and IA-2 were similarly detected in standard radiobinding assays. The narcolepsy patients had higher median levels of A/H1N1 antibodies than the controls (p=0.006). A/H1N1 antibody levels were higher among the &lt;13 years old (n=12) compared to patients who were older than 30 years (n=12, p=0.014). Being HLA-DQB1*06:02 positive was associated with higher A/H1N1 antibody levels in both patients and controls (p=0.026). Serum autoantibody levels to TRIB2 were low overall and high binders did not differ between patients and controls. We observed an association between levels of A/H1N1 antibodies and TRIB2 autoantibody levels particularly among the youngest narcolepsy patients (r=0.819, p&lt;0.001). In conclusion, following the 2009 influenza pandemic vaccination, A/H1N1 antibody levels were associated with young age-at-onset narcolepsy patients positive for HLA-DQB1*06:02. The possibility that TRIB2 is an autoantigen in narcolepsy remains to be clarified. We could verify autoantibody responses against TRIB2 which needs to be determined in larger patient cohorts and control populations.


A severe burn not only affects the patients, but may also have a great impact on the lives of family members. It is known that family members of patients with burns experience psychological distress, but health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has not been studied in this group. The aim was to study predictors of HRQoL in family members of patients with burns. Forty-four family members of adult patients treated in a burn center, between 2000 and 2007, completed questionnaires during care, and at 3, 6, and 12 months after injury. HRQoL was assessed with the EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D), which consists of the dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain, and anxiety/depression. The questionnaire generates an EQ-5D index and a visual analog scale (VAS) score. Overall, the EQ-5D index was similar to that of the general population. A slight improvement in HRQoL was found in the VAS scores and in the anxiety/depression dimension over time. In regression models, HRQoL was primarily predicted by earlier life events, symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, and HRQoL, assessed during the patients' hospitalization. In summary, HRQoL assessed with VAS scores increased slightly during the first year postburn, and early screening for life events and psychological symptoms, and HRQoL might be useful in identifying family members in need of support.
Abstract available from the publisher.
Abstract available from the publisher.


By detecting -amyloid (A) in the wall of cortical arterioles, amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) imaging might help diagnose cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) in patients with lobar intracerebral hemorrhage (l-ICH). No previous study has directly assessed the diagnostic value of (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) PET in probable CAA-related l-ICH against healthy controls (HCs). (11)C-PiB-PET and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including T2* were obtained in 11 nondemented patients fulfilling the Boston criteria for probable CAA-related symptomatic l-ICH (sl-ICH) and 20 HCs without cognitive complaints or impairment. After optimal spatial normalization, cerebral spinal fluid (CSF)-corrected PiB distribution volume ratios (DVRs) were obtained. There was no significant difference in whole cortex or regional DVRs between CAA patients and age-matched HCs. The whole cortex DVR was above the 95% confidence limit in 4/9 HCs and 10/11 CAA patients (sensitivity=91%, specificity=55%). Region/frontal or occipital ratios did not have better discriminative value. Similar but less accurate results were found using visual analysis. In patients with sl-ICH, (11)C-PiB-PET has low specificity for CAA due to the frequent occurrence of high (11)C-PiB uptake in the healthy elderly reflecting incipient Alzheimer's disease (AD), which might also be present in suspected CAA. However, a negative PiB scan rules out CAA with excellent sensitivity, which has clinical implications for prognostication and selection of candidates for drug trials.
Regional hypometabolism of glucose in the brain is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, little is known about the specific alterations of neuronal and astrocytic metabolism involved in homeostasis of glutamate and GABA in AD. Here, we investigated the effects of amyloid  (A) pathology on neuronal and astrocytic metabolism and glial-neuronal interactions in amino acid neurotransmitter homeostasis in the transgenic McGill-R-Thy1-APP rat model of AD compared with healthy controls at age 15 months. Rats were injected with [1-(13)C]glucose and [1,2-(13)C]acetate, and extracts of the hippocampal formation as well as several cortical regions were analyzed using (1)H- and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and high-performance liquid chromatography. Reduced tricarboxylic acid cycle turnover was evident for glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons in hippocampal formation and frontal cortex, and for astrocytes in frontal cortex. Pyruvate carboxylation, which is necessary for de novo synthesis of amino acids, was decreased and affected the level of glutamine in hippocampal formation and those of glutamate, glutamine, GABA, and aspartate in the retrosplenial/cingulate cortex. Metabolic alterations were also detected in the entorhinal cortex. Overall, perturbations in energy- and neurotransmitter homeostasis, mitochondrial astrocytic and neuronal metabolism, and aspects of the glutamate-glutamine cycle were found in McGill-R-Thy1-APP rats.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the commonest cause of death and disability in those aged under 40 years. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL1ra) is an endogenous competitive antagonist at the interleukin-1 type-1 receptor (IL-1R). Antagonism at the IL-1R confers neuroprotection in several rodent models of neuronal injury (i.e., trauma, stroke and excitotoxicity). We describe a single center, phase II, open label, randomized-control study of recombinant human IL1ra (rhIL1ra, anakinra) in severe TBI, at a dose of 100 mg subcutaneously once a day for 5 days in 20 patients randomized 1:1. We provide safety data (primary outcome) in this pathology, utilize cerebral microdialysis to directly determine brain extracellular concentrations of IL1ra and 41 cytokines and chemokines, and use principal component analysis (PCA) to explore the resultant cerebral cytokine profile. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist was safe, penetrated into plasma and the brain extracellular fluid. The PCA showed a separation in cytokine profiles after IL1ra administration. A candidate cytokine from this analysis, macrophage-derived chemoattractant, was significantly lower in the rhIL1ra-treated group. Our results provide promising data for rhIL1ra as a therapeutic candidate by showing safety, brain penetration and a modification of the neuroinflammatory response to TBI by a putative neuroprotective agent in humans for the first time.
To date, only limited data are available on the effects of pretreatment with novel oral anticoagulants in the event of traumatic brain injury (TBI). We determined intracerebral hemorrhage volume and functional outcome in a standardized TBI model in mice treated with warfarin or dabigatran. Additionally, we investigated whether excess concentrations of dabigatran could increase bleeding and whether this was preventable by using prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC). C57 mice were treated orally with warfarin or dabigatran; sham-treated mice served as controls. Effective anticoagulation was verified by measurement of international normalized ratio and diluted thrombin time, and TBI was induced by controlled cortical impact (CCI). Twenty-four hours after CCI, intracerebral hemorrhage volume was larger in warfarin-pretreated mice than in controls (10.1  4.9 vs 4.1  1.7 L; analysis of variance post hoc P=0.001), but no difference was found between controls and dabigatran-pretreated mice (5.3  1.5 L). PCC applied 30 minutes after CCI did not reliably reduce intracerebral hemorrhage induced by excess dabigatran concentration compared with saline (10.4  11.2 vs 8.7  7.1 L). Our data suggest pathophysiological differences in TBI occurring during warfarin and dabigatran anticoagulation. The reduced hemorrhage formation under dabigatran therapy could present a safety advantage compared with warfarin. An excess dabigatran concentration, however, can increase hemorrhage.
Small vessel disease is associated with white-matter (WM) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) hyperintensities (WMHs) in patients with vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) and subsequent damage to the WM. Although WM is vulnerable to hypoxic-ischemic injury and O is critical in brain physiology, tissue O level in the WM has not been measured and explored in vivo. We hypothesized that spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rat (SHR/SP) fed a Japanese permissive diet (JPD) and subjected to unilateral carotid artery occlusion (UCAO), a model to study VCI, would lead to reduced tissue oxygen (pO) in the deep WM. We tested this hypothesis by monitoring WM tissue pO using in vivo electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) oximetry in SHR/SP rats over weeks before and after JPD/UCAO. The SHR/SP rats experienced an increase in WM pO from 9 to 12 weeks with a maximal 32% increase at week 12, followed by a dramatic decrease in WM pO to near hypoxic conditions during weeks 13 to 16 after JPD/UCAO. The decreased WM pO was accompanied with WM damage and hemorrhages surrounding microvessels. Our findings suggest that changes in WM pO may contribute to WM damage in SHR/SP rat model, and that EPR oximetry can monitor brain pO in the WM of small animals.
Cerebral white matter lesions (WMLs) have been consistently related to cognitive dysfunction but the role of white matter (WM) damage in cognitive impairment is not fully determined. Diffusion tensor imaging is a promising tool to explain impaired cognition related to WMLs. We investigated the separate association of high-grade periventricular hyperintensities (PVHs) and deep white matter hyperintensities (DWMHs) with fractional anisotropy (FA) in middle-aged individuals. We also assessed the predictive value to cognition of FA within specific WM tracts associated with high-grade WMLs. One hundred participants from the Barcelona-AsIA Neuropsychology Study were divided into groups based on low- and high-grade WMLs. Voxel-by-voxel FA were compared between groups, with separate analyses for high-grade PVHs and DWMHs. The mean FA within areas showing differences between groups was extracted in each tract for linear regression analyses. Participants with high-grade PVHs and participants with high-grade DWMHs showed lower FA in different areas of specific tracts. Areas showing decreased FA in high-grade DWMHs predicted lower cognition, whereas areas with decreased FA in high-grade PVHs did not. The predictive value to cognition of specific WM tracts supports the involvement of cortico-subcortical circuits in cognitive deficits only in DWMHs.
The use of systematic review and meta-analysis of preclinical studies has become more common, including those of studies describing the modeling of cerebrovascular diseases. Empirical evidence suggests that too many preclinical experiments lack methodological rigor, and this leads to inflated treatment effects. The aim of this review is to describe the concepts of systematic review and meta-analysis and consider how these tools may be used to provide empirical evidence to spur the field to improve the rigor of the conduct and reporting of preclinical research akin to their use in improving the conduct and reporting of randomized controlled trials in clinical research. As with other research domains, systematic reviews are subject to bias. Therefore, we have also suggested guidance for their conduct, reporting, and critical appraisal.
Neuroinflammation has been identified as a potential therapeutic target in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), but relevant biomarkers are needed. The superoxide dismutase (SOD1)(G93A) transgenic mouse model of ALS offers a unique opportunity to study and potentially manipulate presymptomatic pathology. While T-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been shown to be sensitive to pathologic changes at symptom onset, no earlier biomarkers were previously identified and the underlying histopathologic correlates remain uncertain. To address these issues, we used a multimodal MRI approach targeting structural (T, T, apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), magnetization transfer ratio (MTR)), vascular (gadolinium diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid), and endothelial (vascular cell adhesion molecule-microparticles of iron oxide) changes, together with histopathologic analysis from presymptomatic to symptomatic stages of disease. Presymptomatic changes in brainstem nuclei were evident on T-weighted images from as early as 60 days (P&lt;0.05). Histologic indices of vacuolation, astro- and microglial activation all correlated with T-weighted changes. Significant reductions in ADC (P&lt;0.01) and MTR (P&lt;0.05) were found at 120 days in the same brainstem nuclei. No changes in T relaxation, vascular permeability, or endothelial activation were found at any stage of disease. These findings suggest that T-weighted MRI offers the strongest biomarker potential in this model, and that MRI has unique potential for noninvasive and longitudinal assessment of presymptomatically applied therapeutic and neuroprotective agents.
Substantial efforts are being spent on postmortem mRNA transcription mapping on the assumption that in vivo protein distribution can be predicted from such data. We tested this assumption by comparing mRNA transcription maps from the Allen Human Brain Atlas with reference protein concentration maps acquired with positron emission tomography (PET) in two representative systems of neurotransmission (opioid and serotoninergic). We found a tight correlation between mRNA expression and specific binding with 5-HT1A receptors measured with PET, but for opioid receptors, the correlation was weak. The discrepancy can be explained by differences in expression regulation between the two systems: transcriptional mechanisms dominate the regulation in the serotoninergic system, whereas in the opioid system proteins are further modulated after transcription. We conclude that mRNA information can be exploited for systems where translational mechanisms predominantly regulate expression. Where posttranscriptional mechanisms are important, mRNA data have to be interpreted with caution. The methodology developed here can be used for probing assumptions about the relationship of mRNA and protein in multiple neurotransmission systems.
The human brain changes structurally and functionally during adolescence, with associated alterations in cerebral perfusion. We performed dynamic arterial spin labeling (ASL) magnetic resonance imaging in healthy subjects between 8 and 32 years of age, to investigate changes in cerebral hemodynamics during normal development. In addition, an inversion recovery sequence allowed quantification of changes in longitudinal relaxation time (T) and equilibrium longitudinal magnetization (M). We present mean and reference ranges for normal values of T, M, cerebral blood flow (CBF), bolus arrival time, and bolus duration in cortical gray matter, to provide a tool for identifying age-matched perfusion abnormalities in this age range in clinical studies. Cerebral blood flow and T relaxation times were negatively correlated with age, without gender or hemisphere differences. The same was true for M anteriorly, but posteriorly, males but not females showed a significant decline in M with increasing age. Two examples of the clinical utility of these data in identifying age-matched perfusion abnormalities, in Sturge-Weber syndrome and sickle cell anemia, are illustrated.
The aim of this study is to investigate whether different spatial perfusion-deficit patterns, which indicate differing compensatory mechanisms, can be recognized and used to predict recanalization success of intravenous fibrinolytic therapy in acute stroke patients. Twenty-seven acute stroke data sets acquired within 6 hours from symptom onset including diffusion- (DWI) and perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (PWI) were analyzed and dichotomized regarding recanalization outcome using time-of-flight follow-up data sets. The DWI data sets were used for calculation of apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps and subsequent infarct core segmentation. A patient-individual three-dimensional (3D) shell model was generated based on the segmentation and used for spatial analysis of the ADC as well as cerebral blood volume (CBV), cerebral blood flow, time to peak (TTP), and mean transit time (MTT) parameters derived from PWI. Skewness, kurtosis, area under the curve, and slope were calculated for each parameter curve and used for classification (recanalized/nonrecanalized) using a LogitBoost Alternating Decision Tree (LAD Tree). The LAD tree optimization revealed that only ADC skewness, CBV kurtosis, and MTT kurtosis are required for best possible prediction of recanalization success with a precision of 85%. Our results suggest that the propensity for macrovascular recanalization after intravenous fibrinolytic therapy depends not only on clot properties but also on distal microvascular bed perfusion. The 3D approach for characterization of perfusion parameters seems promising for further research.
The effect of recombinant human tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) on neuroinflammation after stroke remains largely unknown. Here, we tested the effect of rtPA on expression of cellular adhesion molecules, chemokines, and cytokines, and compared those with levels of inflammatory cell recruitment, brain injury, and mortality over 3 days after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in mice. Mortality was dramatically increased after rtPA treatment compared with saline treatment during the first day of reperfusion. Among the animals that survived, rtPA significantly increased CCL3 expression, microglia recruitment, and cerebral infarction 6 hours after MCAO. In contrast, the extent of neutrophils and macrophages infiltration in the brain was similar in both saline- and rtPA-treated animals. Recombinant human tissue plasminogen activator induced Il1b and Tnf expression, 6 and 72 hours after MCAO, respectively, and dramatically reduced interleukin 6 (IL-6) level 24 hours after reperfusion. A dose response study confirmed the effect of rtPA on CCL3 and Il1b expressions. The effect was similar at the doses of 1 and 10 mg/kg. In conclusion, we report for the first time that rtPA amplified microglia recruitment early after stroke in association with a rapid CCL3 production. This early response may take part in the higher susceptibility of rtPA-treated animals to reperfusion injury.
Tumefactive demyelinating lesions can be difficult to distinguish from tumors. Clinical and magnetic resonance imaging features of children with tumefactive demyelination and supratentorial brain tumors were compared. Patients were identified through a 23-site national demyelinating disease study, and from a single-site neuroradiology database. For inclusion, lesions met at least 1 of 3 criteria: maximal cross-sectional diameter &gt;20mm, local or global cerebral mass effect, or presence of perilesional edema. Thirty-one children with tumefactive demyelination (5 with solitary lesions) were identified: 27 of 189 (14.3%) from the demyelinating disease study and 4 from the database. Thirty-three children with tumors were identified. Children with tumefactive demyelination were more likely to have an abnormal neurologic examination and polyfocal neurologic deficits compared to children with tumors. Tumefactive demyelination was distinguished from tumor by the presence of multiple lesions, absence of cortical involvement, and decrease in lesion size or detection of new lesions on serial imaging.

Context: Conventional glucocorticoid replacement therapy fails to mimic the physiological cortisol rhythm, which may have implications for morbidity and mortality in patients with Addison's disease. Objective: The objective of the study was to compare the effects of continuous sc hydrocortisone infusion (CSHI) with conventional oral hydrocortisone (OHC) replacement therapy. Design, Patients, and Interventions: This was a prospective crossover, randomized, multicenter clinical trial comparing 3 months of treatment with thrice-daily OHC vs CSHI. From Norway and Sweden, 33 patients were enrolled from registries and clinics. All patients were assessed at baseline and after 8 and 12 weeks in each treatment arm. Main Outcome Measures: The morning ACTH level was the primary outcome measure. Secondary outcome measures were effects on metabolism, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), sleep, and safety. Results: CSHI yielded normalization of morning ACTH and cortisol levels, and 24-hour salivary cortisol curves resembled the normal circadian variation. Urinary concentrations of glucocorticoid metabolites displayed a normal pattern with CSHI but were clearly altered with OHC. Several HRQoL indices in the vitality domain improved over time with CSHI. No benefit was found for either treatments for any subjective (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index questionnaire) or objective (actigraphy) sleep parameters. Conclusion: CSHI safely brought ACTH and cortisol toward normal circadian levels without adversely affecting glucocorticoid metabolism in the way that OHC did. Positive effects on HRQoL were noted with CSHI, indicating that physiological glucocorticoid replacement therapy may be beneficial and that CSHI might become a treatment option for patients poorly controlled on conventional therapy.

Background: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by social communication impairments and restricted, repetitive behaviors. Whereas current pharmacological interventions for ASD focus primarily on psychiatric symptoms, including agitation and obsessive behaviors, few agents target core symptomatology. It has been previously hypothesized that abnormalities in facial scanning, such as reduced eye contact or increased mouth fixation, contribute to social communication deficits in ASD. In addition, previous reports have suggested elevated stress and anxiety in ASD, symptoms that are believed to impact facial scanning patterns. Objectives: The present pilot study sought to explore the effects of pharmacological intervention via propranolol, a nonselective -adrenergic antagonist and known anxiolytic, on facial scanning in ASD. Specifically, we wished to determine whether there is an increase in eye contact and a decrease in mouth fixation with administration of propranolol. Method: A sample of 14 participants with ASD and 14 matched controls participated in two study sessions in which propranolol and placebo were administered in a counterbalanced, double-blinded manner. At each session, ocular fixation data were collected during presentation of video stimuli of 16 human faces. Fixation time on the eye, nose, and mouth regions of the face stimuli was analyzed. Results: The baseline fixation patterns for the ASD and control groups did not significantly differ; however, administration of propranolol was associated with a significant reduction in mouth fixation for the ASD group. Additionally, mouth fixation was positively related to nonverbal communication impairment in the ASD group. Conclusions: Although eye fixation in ASD appears typical in the present study, the effect of propranolol in reducing mouth fixation suggests an important focus for further research. Future studies are needed to better characterize the relationship between stress and anxiety and facial scanning in ASD, as well as the effects of pharmacological intervention.
Sulforhodamine 101 (SR101) is a useful tool for immediate staining of astrocytes. We hypothesized that if the selectivity of SR101was maintained in astrocytoma cells, it could prove useful for glioma research. Cultured astrocytoma cells and acute slices from orthotopic human glioma (n=9) and lymphoma (n=6) xenografts were incubated with SR101 and imaged with confocal microscopy. A subset of slices (n=18) were counter-immunostained with glial fibrillary acidic protein and CD20 for stereological assessment of SR101 co-localization. SR101 differentiated astrocytic tumor cells from lymphoma cells. In acute slices, SR101 labeled 86.50% (1.86; p&lt;0.0001) of astrocytoma cells and 2.19% (0.47; p&lt;0.0001) of lymphoma cells. SR101-labeled astrocytoma cells had a distinct morphology when compared with in vivo astrocytes. Immediate imaging of human astrocytoma cells in vitro and in ex vivo rodent xenograft tissue labeled with SR101 can identify astrocytic tumor cells and help visualize the tumor margin. These features are useful in studying astrocytoma in the laboratory and may have clinical applications.
Antiepileptic drugs have been shown to be teratogenic, affect children's physical development and have neurodevelopmental effects. These drug-related effects are part of the major burden of epilepsy. Individual drugs need to be assessed via prospective studies, possible only by using pregnancy registers complying with ethical guidelines. Monotherapy data indicate valproate to be the most teratogenic drug, although it is the most effective drug and its teratogenicity is dose-related. To the author's knowledge no specific malformations have clearly been proven to be attributable to a specific drug with the exception of valproate. Other antiepileptic drugs appear to be mildly teratogenic and newer drugs are possibly safer. A balance must be achieved between efficacy and teratogenicity. An outline is given of the problems of seizure control, polytherapy issues and lack of specific malformations ascribed to any individual drugs, and a brief reference to cognitive changes is presented.
Glycine receptor (GlyR) antibodies have been identified in patients with rigidity and hyperekplexia, but the clinical phenotype associated with these antibodies has not been fully elucidated. The clinical features in two additional patients with GlyR antibodies are described. A 55-year-old man presented with stimulus-induced hyperekplexia and rigidity in the lower limbs and trunk. He initially responded to benzodiazepines, but presented after 18 months with severe, painful, prolonged spasms associated with supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias, hypoventilation and oxygen desaturation requiring intubation. He improved following treatment with clonazepam, baclofen and immunomodulatory therapies. A 58-year-old woman presented with stiffness in the legs and hyperekplexia associated with hypoventilation, at times leading to loss of consciousness. She responded to benzodiazepines and has remained in remission. The clinical picture associated with GlyR antibodies includes autonomic dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias and hypoventilation. It is important to recognise these serious complications early to limit mortality from this treatable condition.
The knowledge of immune dysregulation and autoimmunity in neurological disorders has expanded considerably in recent times. Recognition of clinical syndromes, reliable methods of diagnosis, and early targeted immunotherapy can lead to a favourable outcome in acute and subacute neurological disorders that may be associated with significant morbidity and mortality if left untreated. This review focuses on the rapidly expanding field of autoimmune encephalitis. We describe the differences between limbic encephalitis associated with antibodies targeting intracellular antigens, and neuronal surface antibody syndromes (NSAS) where the antigens are primarily receptors or synaptic proteins located on the neuronal cell surface. We chronologically highlight important developments in NSAS by focusing on voltage gated potassium channel complex-associated antibody mediated encephalitis, anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (anti-NMDAR) encephalitis, and anti-dopamine 2 receptor antibody-associated basal ganglia encephalitis. Contentious issues such as the complexities of using serum antibodies as biomarkers, the initiation of central nervous system autoimmunity, and possible pathogenic mechanisms of these antibodies will be reviewed. The therapeutic challenges that clinicians face such as the timing of therapy and the role of second-line therapy will be discussed, with crucial concepts highlighted in the form of clinical vignettes. Future directions will involve the identification of novel antigens and methods to establish their pathogenicity, as well as evaluation of the most efficacious therapeutic strategies in patients with established NSAS.
We present a case of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) diagnosed in adulthood in a man initially referred for specialist neuropsychiatric assessment with psychosis and obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) on a background of epilepsy and intellectual disability. To our knowledge, this is the first reported patient with TSC featuring both psychosis and OCS. This patient highlights the importance of comprehensive re-evaluation of atypical presentations of intellectual disability, epilepsy and associated neuropsychiatric symptoms, even in adulthood. This is particularly relevant in the context of significant advances in genetics, neuroscience, imaging and treatments for heritable neurogenetic disorders.
Evaluation of hereditary axonal neuropathy in childhood is complex. Often, the child has to be subjected to general anaesthesia for a nerve biopsy to guide further genetic testing, which may or may not be readily available. We describe a toddler with clinical features suggesting giant axonal neuropathy (GAN), whose diagnosis was confirmed by minimally invasive skin biopsy and corroborated by the finding of compound heterozygous mutations involving the GAN gene, including a novel interstitial microdeletion at 16q23.2 detected by microarray and a point mutation detected by direct sequencing.
Non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) can present with heterogeneous clinical manifestations including prolonged confusion. MRI of the brain may demonstrate enhancing signal abnormalities that can mimic various pathologies including disease progression in patients with brain tumour. These neuroimaging changes are usually reversible and have been attributed to a combination of cytotoxic and vasogenic oedema. We report an interesting patient with a past history of prostatic rhabdomyosarcoma and brain metastasis presenting with NCSE where brain MRI demonstrated marked left hemispheric signal abnormalities, raising concerns about tumour recurrence. However the neuroimaging changes resolved following treatment with intravenous anticonvulsants, confirming that they were an effect rather than the cause of seizures. Recognition of seizure-related imaging abnormalities is important to institute prompt appropriate treatment, and to avoid diagnostic ambiguity and unnecessary treatment and/or investigations.


The negotiation of social order is intimately connected to the capacity to infer and track status relationships. Despite the foundational role of status in social cognition, we know little about how the brain constructs status from social interactions that display it. Although emerging cognitive neuroscience reveals that status judgments depend on the intraparietal sulcus, a brain region that supports the comparison of targets along a quantitative continuum, we present evidence that status judgments do not necessarily reduce to ranking targets along a quantitative continuum. The process of judging status also fits a social interdependence analysis. Consistent with third-party perceivers judging status by inferring whose goals are dictating the terms of the interaction and who is subordinating their desires to whom, status judgments were associated with increased recruitment of medial pFC and STS, brain regions implicated in mental state inference.
Intersubnuclear neurons in the caudal division of the spinal trigeminal nucleus that project to the principal nucleus (Pr5) play an active role in shaping the receptive fields of other neurons, at different levels in the ascending sensory system that processes information originating from the vibrissae. By using retrograde labeling and digital reconstruction, we investigated the morphometry and topology of the dendritic trees of these neurons and the changes induced by long-term experience-dependent plasticity in adult male rats. Primary afferent input was either eliminated by transection of the right infraorbital nerve (IoN), or selectively altered by repeated whisker clipping on the right side. These neurons do not display asymmetries between sides in basic metric and topologic parameters (global number of trees, nodes, spines, or dendritic ends), although neurons on the left tend to have longer terminal segments. Ipsilaterally, both deafferentation (IoN transection) and deprivation (whisker trimming) reduced the density of spines, and the former also caused a global increase in total dendritic length and a relative increase in more complex arbors. Contralaterally, deafferentation reduced more complex dendritic trees, and caused a moderate decline in dendritic length and spatial reach, and a loss of spines in number and density. Deprivation caused a similar, but more profound, effect on spines. Our findings provide original quantitative descriptions of a scarcely known cell population, and show that denervation- or deprivation-derived plasticity is expressed not only by neurons at higher levels of the sensory pathways, but also by neurons in key subcortical circuits for sensory processing.
Neurochemical changes in the expression of various proteins within the central auditory system have been associated with natural aging. These changes may compensate in part for the loss of auditory sensitivity arising from two phenomena of the aging auditory system: cochlear histopathologies and increased excitability of central auditory neurons. Recent studies in the macaque monkey have revealed age-related changes in the density of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase (NADPHd) and parvalbumin (PV)-positive cells within the inferior colliculus and superior olivary complex. The cochlear nucleus (CN), which is the first central auditory nucleus, remains unstudied. Since the CN participates in the generation of the auditory brainstem response (ABR) and receives direct innervation from the cochlea, it serves as an ideal nucleus to compare the relationship between these neurochemical changes and the physiological and peripheral changes of the aging auditory system. We used stereological sampling to calculate the densities of NADPHd and PV reactive neurons within the three subdivisions of the CN in middle-aged and aged rhesus macaques. Regression analyses of these values with ABR properties and cochlear histopathologies revealed relationships between these cell types and the changing characteristics of the aging auditory system. Our results indicate that NADPHd expression does change with age in a specific subdivision of the CN, but PV does not. Conversely, PV expression correlated with ABR amplitudes and outer hair cell loss in the cochlea, but NADPHd did not. These results indicate that NADPHd and PV may take part in distinct compensatory efforts of the aging auditory system.
The entorhinal cortex is the primary interface between the hippocampal formation and neocortical sources of sensory information. Although much is known about the cells of origin, termination patterns, and topography of the entorhinal projections to other fields of the adult hippocampal formation, very little is known about the development of these pathways, particularly in the human or nonhuman primate. We have carried out experiments in which the anterograde tracers (3) H-amino acids, biotinylated dextran amine, and Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin were injected into the entorhinal cortex in 2-week-old rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). We found that the three fiber bundles originating from the entorhinal cortex (the perforant path, the alvear pathway, and the commissural connection) are all established by 2 weeks of age. Fundamental features of the laminar and topographic distribution of these pathways are also similar to those in adults. There is evidence, however, that some of these projections may be more extensive in the neonate than in the mature brain. The homotopic commissural projections from the entorhinal cortex, for example, originate from a larger region within the entorhinal cortex and terminate much more densely in layer I of the contralateral entorhinal cortex than in the adult. These findings indicate that the overall topographical organization of the main cortical afferent pathways to the dentate gyrus and hippocampus are established by birth. These findings add to the growing body of literature on the development of the primate hippocampal formation and will facilitate further investigations on the development of episodic memory.
Smith, Couchman, and Beran (2014, pp. 115-131) take issue with recent attempts to account for so-called metacognitive behavior in nonhuman animals in terms of simple processes of associative reinforcement learning. Their arguments rely on appeals to unconvincing and equivocal empirical evidence, and a misrepresentation of the nature of associative learning. Although the existing data do not rule out the possibility that animals possess &quot;true&quot; metacognitive abilities, neither do they currently mandate this conclusion. The suggestion that simple mechanisms might give rise to complex behaviors ties in with recent attempts in cognitive and social psychology, and behavioral neuroscience, to explain human behavior in terms of similar, simple mechanisms. As such this perspective should be seen as an opportunity for comparative psychology, not a threat. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Patients affected by severe maxillary atrophy and skeletal malocclusion have been widely treated by simultaneous orthognathic surgical procedures, interpositional bone insertion and immediate or delayed implant placement.Although several authors have described that the &quot;quad&quot; technique using 4 zygomatic fixtures as an effective way to fully rehabilitate the severe atrophic maxilla, there are still no experiences relative to the use of zygomatic fixtures associated to maxillary osteotomies in case of large skeletal discrepancy.The aim of this study is to report a 1-step surgical rehabilitation of severe atrophic maxilla by means of Le Fort I osteotomy for maxillary forward repositioning and simultaneous insertion of 4 zygomatic implants with immediate prosthetic loading.
Hormones and metabolites act as satiety signals in the brain and play an important role in the control of feed intake (FI). These signals can reach the hypothalamus and brainstem, 2 major centers of FI regulation, via the blood stream or the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). During the early lactation period of high-yielding dairy cows, the increase of FI is often insufficient. Recently, it has been demonstrated that insulin-like growth factors (IGF) may control FI. Thus, we asked in the present study if IGF-binding proteins (IGFBP) are regulated during the periparturient period and in response to feed restriction and therefore might affect FI as well. In addition, we specifically addressed conditional distribution of IGFBP in plasma and CSF. In one experiment, 10 multiparous German Holstein dairy cows were fed ad libitum and samples of CSF and plasma were obtained before morning feeding on d -20, -10, +1, +10, +20, and +40 relative to calving. In a second experiment, 7 cows in second mid-lactation were sampled for CSF and plasma after ad libitum feeding and again after feeding 50% of the previous ad libitum intake for 4 d. Intact IGFBP-2, IGFBP-3, and IGFBP-4 were detected in plasma by quantitative Western ligand blot analysis. In CSF, we were able to predominantly identify intact IGFBP-2 and a specific IGFBP-2 fragment containing detectable binding affinities for biotinylated IGF-II. Whereas plasma concentrations of IGFBP-2 and IGFBP-4 increased during the periparturient period, IGFBP-3 was unaffected over time. In CSF, concentrations of IGFBP-2, both intact and fragmented, were not affected during the periparturient period. Plasma IGF-I continuously decreased until calving but remained at a lower concentration in early lactation than in late pregnancy. Food restriction did not affect concentrations of IGF components present in plasma or CSF. We could show that the IGFBP profiles in plasma and CSF are clearly distinct and that changes in IGFBP in plasma do not simply correspond in the brain. We thus assume independent control of IGFBP distribution between plasma and CSF. Due to the known anorexic effect of IGF-I, elevated plasma concentrations of IGFBP-2 and IGFBP-4 during the postpartum period in conjunction with reduced plasma IGF-I concentrations may be interpreted as an endocrine response against negative energy balance in early lactation in dairy cows.


Life experiences can alter cognitive abilities and subsequent behavior. Here we asked whether differences in experience could affect social status. In hierarchical animal societies, high-ranking males that typically win aggressive encounters gain territories and hence access to mates. To understand the relative contributions of social experience and physical environment on status, we used a highly territorial African cichlid fish species, Astatotilapia burtoni, that lives in a dynamic lek-like social hierarchy. Astatotilapia burtoni males are either dominant or submissive and can switch status rapidly depending on the local environment. Although dominant males are innately aggressive, we wondered whether they modulated their aggression based on experience. We hypothesized that as males mature they might hone their fighting tactics based on observation of other males fighting. We compared males of different ages and sizes in distinctly different physical environments and subsequently tested their fighting skills. We found that a size difference previously thought negligible (&lt;10% body length) gave a significant advantage to the larger opponent. In contrast, we found no evidence that increasing environmental complexity affected status outcomes. Surprisingly, we found that males only a few days older than their opponents had a significant advantage during territorial disputes so that being older compensated for the disadvantage of being smaller. Moreover, the slightly older winners exploited a consistent fighting strategy, starting with lower levels of aggression on the first day that significantly increased on the second day, a pattern absent in younger winners. These data suggest that experience is an advantage during fights for status, and that social learning provides more relevant experience than the physical complexity of the territory.
We found evidence that the usual developmental trends in children's spontaneous false memories were eliminated using novel stimuli containing obvious themes. That is, children created more false memories than adults when scenes needed to be remembered. In Experiment 1, 7- and 8-year-olds had higher false memory rates than adults when using visual scenes. Experiment 2 showed that gist cuing could not account for this effect. In Experiment 3, children and adults received visual scenes and story contexts in which these scenes were embedded. For both types of stimuli, we found that children had the highest false memory rates. Our results indicate that the underlying theme of these scenes is easily identified, resulting in our developmental false memory trend.
Updating and maintenance of information are 2 conflicting demands on working memory (WM). We examined the time required to update WM (updating latency) as a function of the sequence of updated and not-updated items within a list. Participants held a list of items in WM and updated a variable subset of them in each trial. Four experiments that vary the number of to-be-updated and to-be-maintained items, as well as their positions in the list, are reported. The pattern of latencies was best explained by a model assuming forward scanning of the list, updating modified items, and maintaining nonmodified items. Switching between updating and maintenance incurred a response time cost, which increased with overall set-size. The formation of new item-position associations accounted for an additional response time component. The finding of an update-switch cost provides novel behavioral support for a class of physiologically inspired computational models, in which updating and maintenance require 2 different states of WM.
To assess how flow affects school structure and threat detection, startle response rates of solitary and small groups of giant danio Devario aequipinnatus to visual looming stimuli were compared in flow and no-flow conditions. The instantaneous position and heading of each D. aequipinnatus was extracted from high-speed videos. Behavioural results indicate that (1) school structure is altered in flow such that D. aequipinnatus orient upstream while spanning out in a crosswise direction, (2) the probability of at least one D. aequipinnatus detecting the visual looming stimulus is higher in flow than no flow for both solitary D. aequipinnatus and groups of eight D. aequipinnatus; however, (3) the probability of three or more individuals responding is higher in no flow than in flow. These results indicate a higher probability of stimulus detection in flow but a higher probability of internal transmission of information in no flow. Finally, results were well predicted by a computational model of collective fright response that included the probability of direct detection (based on signal detection theory) and indirect detection (i.e. via interactions between group members) of threatening stimuli. This model provides a new theoretical framework for analysing the collective transfer of information among groups of fishes and other organisms.
We observed the changes in the angular measurements commonly used in the evaluation of the first metatarsal and first metatarsophalangeal joint in cadaveric specimens before and after frontal plane rotation of the first metatarsal. Measurements of the first and second intermetatarsal angle (IMA), hallux abductus angle, proximal articular set angle, and tibial sesamoid position (TSP) were taken after varying degrees of varus and valgus rotation of the first metatarsal. Standard dorsoplantar radiographs were taken at 0, 10, 20, and 30 of valgus rotation of the first metatarsal and repeated at 10, 20, and 30 varus rotation of the first metatarsal. The data were analyzed using a mixed linear model to compare the change in each angle measurement over the range of valgus and varus rotation. The change in the TSP was significant in both valgus and varus rotations (p=.0004 and p=.028, respectively), an increase in valgus rotation causing an increase in the TSP and an increase in varus rotation causing a decrease in TSP. The change in the IMA was significant compared with valgus rotation (p=.028), showing that as the valgus rotation increased, the IMA also increased. However, compared with the varus rotation, the correlation was not significant (p=.18). The proximal articular set angle and hallux abductus angle measurements, compared with metatarsal rotation, showed positive trends but were not statistically significant. From our results and a review of the published data, we have hypothesized that frontal plane rotation of the first metatarsal is an integral component of hallux abducto valgus pathologic features, specifically in relation to the TSP and IMA.





In this study, we investigated dual-language decline in non-balanced bilinguals with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) both longitudinally and cross-sectionally. We examined patients' naming accuracy on the Boston Naming Test (BNT: Kaplan et al., 1983) over three testing sessions (longitudinal analysis) and compared their performance to that of matched controls (cross-sectional analysis). We found different longitudinal and cross-sectional patterns of decline: Longitudinally, the non-dominant language seemed to decline more steeply than the dominant language, but, cross-sectionally, differences between patients and controls were larger for the dominant than for the non-dominant language, especially at the initial testing session. This differential pattern of results for cross-sectional versus longitudinal decline was supported by correlations between decline measures and BNT item characteristics. Further studies will be needed to better characterize the nature of linguistic decline in bilinguals with AD; however, these results suggest that representational robustness of individual lexical representations, rather than language membership, might determine the time course of decline for naming in bilinguals with AD. (JINS, 2014, 20, 1-13).
Negative affect (e.g., depression) is associated with accelerated age-related cognitive decline and heightened dementia risk. Fewer studies examine positive psychosocial factors (e.g., emotional support, self-efficacy) in cognitive aging. Preliminary reports suggest that these variables predict slower cognitive decline independent of negative affect. No reports have examined these factors in a single model to determine which best relate to cognition. Data from 482 individuals 55 and older came from the normative sample for the NIH Toolbox for the Assessment of Neurological and Behavioral Function. Negative and positive psychosocial factors, executive functioning, working memory, processing speed, and episodic memory were measured with the NIH Toolbox Emotion and Cognition modules. Confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling characterized independent relations between psychosocial factors and cognition. Psychosocial variables loaded onto negative and positive factors. Independent of education, negative affect and health status, greater emotional support was associated with better task-switching and processing speed. Greater self-efficacy was associated with better working memory. Negative affect was not independently associated with any cognitive variables. Findings support the conceptual distinctness of negative and positive psychosocial factors in older adults. Emotional support and self-efficacy may be more closely tied to cognition than other psychosocial variables. (JINS, 2014, 20, 1-9).

The analysis of peripheral endocannabinoids (ECs) is a good biomarker of the EC system. Their concentrations, from clinical studies, strongly depend on sample collection and time processing conditions taking place in clinical and laboratory settings. The analysis of 2-monoacylglycerols (MGs) (i.e., 2-arachidonoylglycerol or 2-oleoylglycerol) is a particularly challenging issue because of their ex vivo formation and chemical isomerization that occur after blood sample collection. We provide evidence that their ex vivo formation can be minimized by adding Orlistat, an enzymatic lipase inhibitor, to plasma. Taking into consideration the low cost of Orlistat, we recommend its addition to plasma collecting tubes while maintaining sample cold chain until storage. We have validated a method for the determination of the EC profile of a range of MGs and N-acylethanolamides in plasma that preserves the original isomer ratio of MGs. Nevertheless, the chemical isomerization of 2-MGs can only be avoided by an immediate processing and analysis of samples due to their instability during conservation. We believe that this new methodology can aid in the harmonization of the measurement of ECs and related compounds in clinical samples.

It is currently controversial if and in which terms Parkinson's disease (PD) and restless legs syndrome (RLS) are linked in co-morbid association. In a cohort of 106de novo PD patients (67 male and 39 female, aged 42-83years), 15 of them developed RLS, which was prospectively assessed at 6-month intervals from the starting of dopamine(DA)ergic therapy. The incidence rate oftotal RLS was 47 per 1,000 case/person per year and 37 per 1,000 case/person per year after the exclusion of possible &quot;secondary&quot; formsof the disorder (n=3). These figures are higher than those reported in an incidence study conducted in German general population (Study of Health in Pomerania), in which the method of ascertainment of RLS similar to ours has been used. An incidence rate of total RLS significantly higher than that reported in the above-mentioned study was found in the age ranges 55-64years and in the age range 45-74years standardized to European general population 2013 (70 and 53 per 1,000 case/person per year, respectively, p&lt; 0.01). Ten out of 12 patients (83.3%) developed RLS within 24months from the starting of DAergic medication (median latency 7.5months). These findings support the view that sustained DAergic therapy could represent the critical factor inducing an increased incidence of RLS in patients with PD and that the latter disease should be regarded as the condition predisposing to the occurrence of the former and not viceversa as previously hypothesized. The mechanism underlying the increased incidence of RLS remains unclear and deserves further investigation.
Suppressor of cytokine signaling-2 (SOCS2) is a regulator of intracellular responses to growth factors and cytokines. Cultured dorsal root ganglia neurons from neonatal mice with increased or decreased SOCS2 expression were examined for altered responsiveness to nerve growth factor (NGF). In the presence of NGF, SOCS2 over-expression increased neurite length and complexity, whereas loss of SOCS2 reduced neurite outgrowth. Neither loss nor gain of SOCS2 expression altered the relative survival of these cells, suggesting that SOCS2 can discriminate between the differentiation and survival responses to NGF. Interaction studies in 293T cells revealed that SOCS2 immunoprecipitates with TrkA and a juxtamembrane motif of TrkA was required for this interaction. SOCS2 also immunoprecipitated with endogenous TrkA in PC12 Tet-On cells. Over-expression of SOCS2 in PC12 Tet-On cells increased total and surface TrkA expression. In contrast, dorsal root ganglion neurons which over-expressed SOCS2 did not exhibit significant changes in total levels but an increase in surface TrkA was noted. SOCS2-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 Tet-On cells correlated with increased and prolonged activation of pAKT and pErk1/2 and required an intact SOCS2 SH2 domain and SOCS box domain. This study highlights a novel role for SOCS2 in the regulation of TrkA signaling and biology.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is essential for eliciting protective immunity during the acute phase of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) infection in the central nervous system (CNS). We previously demonstrated that microglial IL-1 production in response to live S. aureus is mediated through the Nod-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, including the adapter protein ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase-1 recruitment domain), and pro-caspase 1. Here, we utilized NLRP3, ASC, and caspase 1/11 knockout (KO) mice to demonstrate the functional significance of inflammasome activity during CNS S. aureus infection. ASC and caspase 1/11 KO animals were exquisitely sensitive, with approximately 50% of mice succumbing to infection within 24 h. Unexpectedly, the survival of NLRP3 KO mice was similar to wild-type animals, suggesting the involvement of an alternative upstream sensor, which was later identified as absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2) based on the similar disease patterns between AIM2 and ASC KO mice. Besides IL-1, other key inflammatory mediators, including IL-6, CXCL1, CXCL10, and CCL2 were significantly reduced in the CNS of AIM2 and ASC KO mice, implicating autocrine/paracrine actions of IL-1, as these mediators do not require inflammasome processing for secretion. These studies demonstrate a novel role for the AIM2 inflammasome as a critical molecular platform for regulating IL-1 release and survival during acute CNS S. aureus infection.
Autonomic control of heart rate is mediated by cardioinhibitory parasympathetic cholinergic neurons located in the brainstem and stimulatory sympathetic noradrenergic neurons. During embryonic development the survival and cholinergic phenotype of brainstem autonomic neurons is promoted by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We now provide evidence that BDNF regulates heart rate by a mechanism involving increased brainstem cardioinhibitory parasympathetic activity. Mice with a BDNF haploinsufficiency exhibit elevated resting heart rate, and infusion of BDNF intracerebroventricularly reduces heart rate in both wild-type and BDNF+/- mice. The atropine-induced elevation of heart rate is diminished in BDNF+/- mice and is restored by BDNF infusion, whereas the atenolol-induced decrease in heart rate is unaffected by BDNF levels, suggesting that BDNF signaling enhances parasympathetic tone which is diminished with BDNF haploinsufficiency. Whole-cell recordings from pre-motor cholinergic cardioinhibitory vagal neurons in the nucleus ambiguus indicate that BDNF haploinsufficiency reduces cardioinhibitory vagal neuron activity by increased inhibitory GABAergic and diminished excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission to these neurons. Our findings reveal a previously unknown role for BDNF in the control of heart rate by a mechanism involving increased activation of brainstem cholinergic parasympathetic neurons.
Compensatory mechanisms in dopamine (DA) signaling have long been proposed to delay onset of locomotor symptoms during Parkinson's disease progression until ~80% loss of striatal DA occurs. Increased striatal dopamine turnover has been proposed to be a part of this compensatory response, but may occur after locomotor symptoms. Increased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity has also been proposed as a mechanism, but the impact of TH protein loss upon site-specific TH phosphorylation in conjunction with the impact on DA tissue content is not known. The tissue content of DA was determined against TH protein loss in the striatum and substantia nigra (SN) following 6-hydroxydopamine lesion in the medial forebrain bundle in young Sprague-Dawley male rats. Although DA predictably decreased in both regions following 6-hydroxydopamine, there was a significant difference in DA loss between the striatum (75%) and SN (40%), despite similar TH protein loss. Paradoxically, there was a significant decrease in DA against remaining TH protein in striatum, but a significant increase in DA against remaining TH in SN. In the SN, increased DA per remaining TH protein was matched by increased ser31, but not ser40, TH phosphorylation. In striatum, both ser31 and ser40 phosphorylation decreased, reflecting decreased DA per TH. However, in control nigral and striatal tissue, only ser31 phosphorylation correlated with DA per TH protein. Combined, these results suggest that the phosphorylation of ser31 in the SN may be a mechanism to increase DA biosynthesis against TH protein loss in an in vivo model of Parkinson's disease. Properties of dopamine biosynthesis were evaluated in the 6-OHDA model of Parkinson's disease by studying the impact of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein loss on its own phosphorylation and dopamine (DA) tissue content in rat nigrostriatal pathway. A dichotomous response was observed between striatum and substantia nigra in that dopamine per remaining TH decreased in striatum, but increased in substantia nigra. Phosphorylation at ser31 reflected these differences, indicating that ser31 phosphorylation may be critical to maintain dopamine with progressive TH protein loss. Drawings are from slides purchased from Motifolio (http://motifolio.com/).
Dysregulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation is associated with changes in addiction-related behaviors. In this study, we tested whether sex differences in the acute effects of methamphetamine (MA) exposure involve differential activation of the HPA axis. Male and female mice were injected with MA (1 mg/kg) or saline for comparison of plasma corticosterone and analysis of the immediate early gene c-Fos in brain. There was a prolonged elevation in corticosterone levels in female compared to male mice. C-Fos was elevated in both sexes following MA in HPA axis-associated regions, including the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), central amygdala, cingulate, and CA3 hippocampal region. MA increased the number of c-Fos and c-Fos/glucocorticoid receptor (GR) dual-labeled cells to a greater extent in males than females in the cingulate and CA3 regions. MA also increased the number of c-fos/vasopressin dual-labeled cells in the PVN as well as the number and percentage of c-Fos/GR dual-labeled cells in the PVN and central amygdala, although no sex differences in dual labeling were found in these regions. Thus, sex differences in MA-induced plasma corticosterone levels and activation of distinct brain regions and proteins involved in HPA axis regulation may contribute to sex differences in acute effects of MA on the brain. Methamphetamine induces a prolonged plasma corticosterone response in females compared to males. This may be mediated by increased neural activation, involving a greater activation of glucocorticoid receptor-positive cells, in males in the CA3 and cingulate brain regions, which are involved in negative feedback functions. These findings indicate a sex difference in the neural regulation of methamphetamine-induced plasma corticosterone release.
DJ-1 is an oxidative stress sensor that localizes to the mitochondria when the cell is exposed to oxidative stress. DJ-1 mutations that result in gene deficiency are linked to increased risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). Activation of microglial stress conditions that are linked to PD may result in neuronal death. We postulated that DJ-1 deficiency may increase microglial neurotoxicity. We found that down-regulation of DJ-1 in microglia using an shRNA approach increased cell sensitivity to dopamine as measured by secreted pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1 and IL-6. Furthermore, we discovered that DJ-1-deficient microglia had increased monoamine oxidase activity that resulted in elevation of intracellular reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide leading to increased dopaminergic neurotoxicity. Rasagaline, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor approved for treatment of PD, reduced the microglial pro-inflammatory phenotype and significantly reduced neurotoxicity. Moreover, we discovered that DJ-1-deficient microglia have reduced expression of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), previously suggested as a risk factor for pro-inflammation in neurodegenerative diseases. Further studies of DJ-1-mediated cellular pathways in microglia may contribute useful insights into the development of PD providing future avenues for therapeutic intervention
Cholinergic signaling plays an important role in regulating the growth and regeneration of axons in the nervous system. The 7 nicotinic receptor (7) can drive synaptic development and plasticity in the hippocampus. Here, we show that activation of 7 significantly reduces axon growth in hippocampal neurons by coupling to G protein-regulated inducer of neurite outgrowth 1 (Gprin1), which targets it to the growth cone. Knockdown of Gprin1 expression using RNAi is found sufficient to abolish the localization and calcium signaling of 7 at the growth cone. In addition, an 7/Gprin1 interaction appears intimately linked to a Go, growth-associated protein 43, and CDC42 cytoskeletal regulatory pathway within the developing axon. These findings demonstrate that 7 regulates axon growth in hippocampal neurons, thereby likely contributing to synaptic formation in the developing brain.
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signalling cascade is involved in the intracellular regulation of protein synthesis, specifically for proteins involved in controlling neuronal morphology and facilitating synaptic plasticity. Research has revealed that the activity of the mTOR cascade is influenced by several extracellular and environmental factors that have been implicated in schizophrenia. Therefore, there is reason to believe that one of the downstream consequences of dysfunction or hypofunction of these factors in schizophrenia is disrupted mTOR signalling and hence impaired protein synthesis. This results in abnormal neurodevelopment and deficient synaptic plasticity, outcomes which could underlie some of the positive, negative and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. This review will discuss the functional roles of the mTOR cascade and present evidence in support of a novel mTOR-based hypothesis of the neuropathology of schizophrenia. During neurodevelopment, genetic and epigenetic factors can disrupt mTOR signalling which affects synthesis of proteins essential for correct neuronal growth and network connectivity. This renders the CNS particularly vulnerable to the effects of secondary factors during adolescence which increases the risk of developing schizophrenia in adulthood. This review discusses the functional roles of the mTOR cascade and presents evidence in support of a novel mTOR-based hypothesis of the neuropathology of schizophrenia. Testing this hypothesis will advance our understanding of the aetiology of this illness and reveal novel therapeutic targets.
The present study examined the effect of short-term psychosocial and metabolic stress in a monkey model of stress-induced amenorrhaea on the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. KISS1 expression was determined by in situ hybridisation in the infundibular arcuate nucleus. Downstream of KISS1, gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) axons in lateral areas rostral to the infundibular recess, serum luteinising hormone (LH) and serum oestradiol were measured by immunohistochemistry and radioimmunoassay. Upstream of KISS1, norepinephrine axons in the rostral arcuate nucleus and serotonin axons in the anterior hypothalamus and periaqueductal grey were measured by immunohistochemistry. Female cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis) characterised as highly stress resilient (HSR) or stress sensitive (SS) were examined. After characterisation of stress sensitivity, monkeys were either not stressed, or mildly stressed for 5 days before euthanasia in the early follicular phase. Stress consisted of 5 days of 20% food reduction in a novel room with unfamiliar conspecifics. There was a significant increase in KISS1 expression in HSR and SS animals in the presence versus absence of stress (P = 0.005). GnRH axon density increased with stress in HSR and SS animals (P = 0.015), whereas LH showed a gradual but nonsignificant increase with stress. Oestradiol trended higher in HSR animals and there was no effect of stress (P = 0.83). Norepinephrine axon density (marked with dopamine -hydroxylase) increased with stress in both HSR and SS groups (P  0.002), whereas serotonin axon density was higher in HSR compared to SS animals and there was no effect of stress (P = 0.03). The ratio of dopamine -hydroxylase/oestradiol correlated with KISS1 (P = 0.052) and GnRH correlated with serum LH (P = 0.039). In conclusion, oestradiol inhibited KISS1 in the absence of stress, although stress increased norepinephrine, which may over-ride oestradiol inhibition of KISS1 expression. We speculate that neural pathways transduce stress to KISS1 neurones, which changes their sensitivity to oestradiol.



Direction changing horizontal positional nystagmus can be observed in a variety of central and peripheral vestibular disorders. We tested sixty subjects with horizontal positional nystagmus and vertigo on the Epley Omniax() rotator. Monocular video recordings were performed with the right or left ear down, in the supine and prone positions. Nystagmus slow-phase velocity (SPV) was plotted as a function of time. Thirty-one subjects diagnosed with horizontal canalolithiasis had paroxysmal horizontal geotropic nystagmus with the affected ear down (onset 0.8  1 s, range 0-4.9 s, duration 11.7-47.9 s, peak SPV 79  67/s). The SPV peaked at 5-20 s and declined to 0 by 60 s; at 40 s from onset, the average SPV was 1.8 % of the peak. Nine subjects diagnosed with cupulolithiasis had persistent apogeotropic horizontal nystagmus (onset 0.7  1.4 s, range 0-4.3 s). Peak SPV was 54.2  31.8/s and 26.6  12.2/s with unaffected and affected ears down, respectively. At 40 s, the average SPV had decayed to only 81 % (unaffected ear down) and 65 % (affected ear down) of the peak. Twenty subjects were diagnosed with disorders other than benign positional vertigo (BPV) [vestibular migraine (VM), Mnire's Disease, vestibular schwannoma, unilateral or bilateral peripheral vestibular loss]. Subjects with VM (n = 13) had persistent geotropic or apogeotropic horizontal nystagmus. On average, at 40 s from nystagmus onset, the SPV was 61 % of the peak. Two patients with Mnire's Disease had persistent apogeotropic horizontal nystagmus; the peak SPV at 40 s ranged between 28.6 and 49.5 % of the peak. Symptomatic horizontal positional nystagmus can be observed in canalolithiasis, cupulolithiasis and diverse central and peripheral vestibulopathies; its temporal and intensity profile could be helpful in the separation of these entities.
White matter (WM) tract alterations were assessed in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) relative to healthy controls and patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) to explore the relationship of WM tract damage with clinical disease severity, performance on cognitive tests, and apathy. 37 PSP patients, 41 PD patients, and 34 healthy controls underwent an MRI scan and clinical testing to evaluate physical disability, cognitive impairment, and apathy. In PSP, the contribution of WM tract damage to global disease severity and cognitive and behavioural disturbances was assessed using Random Forest analysis. Relative to controls, PSP patients showed diffusion tensor (DT) MRI abnormalities of the corpus callosum, superior cerebellar peduncle (SCP), cingulum and uncinate fasciculus bilaterally, and right inferior longitudinal fasciculus. Corpus callosum and SCP DT MRI measures distinguished PSP from PD patients with high accuracy (area under the curve ranging from 0.89 to 0.72). In PSP, DT MRI metrics of the corpus callosum and superior cerebellar peduncles were the best predictors of global disease severity scale scores. DT MRI metrics of the corpus callosum, right superior longitudinal and inferior longitudinal fasciculus, and left uncinate were the best predictors of executive dysfunction. In PSP, apathy severity was related to the damage to the corpus callosum, right superior longitudinal, and uncinate fasciculi. In conclusion, WM tract damage contributes to the motor, cognitive, and behavioural deficits in PSP. DT MRI offers markers for PSP diagnosis, assessment, and monitoring.



Recent studies have shown that fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) may be of value for pre-surgical assessment of language lateralisation. The aim of this study was to systematically review and analyse the available literature. A systematic electronic search for studies comparing fMRI with Wada testing was conducted in the PubMed database between March 2009 and November 2011. Studies involving unilateral Wada testing, study population consisting exclusively of children younger than 12 years of age or involving five patients or fewer were excluded. 22 studies (504 patients) were included. A random effects meta-analysis was conducted to obtain pooled estimates of the positive and negative predictive values of the fMRI using the Wada test as the reference standard. The impact of several study features on the performance of fMRI was assessed. The results showed that 81% of patients were correctly classified as having left or right language dominance or mixed language representation. Techniques were discordant in 19% of patients. fMRI and Wada test agreed in 94% for typical language lateralisation and in 51% for atypical language lateralisation. Language production or language comprehension tasks and different regions of interest did not yield statistically significant different results. It can be concluded that fMRI is reliable when there is strong left-lateralised language. The Wada test is warranted when fMRI fails to show clear left-lateralisation.


The clinical approach to patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has been largely modified by the identification of novel genes, the detection of gene mutations in apparently sporadic patients, and the discovery of the strict genetic and clinical relation between ALS and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). As a consequence, clinicians are increasingly facing the dilemma on how to handle genetic counselling and testing both for ALS patients and their relatives. On the basis of existing literature on genetics of ALS and of other late-onset life-threatening disorders, we propose clinical suggestions to enable neurologists to provide optimal clinical and genetic counselling to patients and families. Genetic testing should be offered to ALS patients who have a first-degree or second-degree relative with ALS, FTD or both, and should be discussed with, but not offered to, all other ALS patients, with special emphasis on its major uncertainties. Presently, genetic testing should not be proposed to asymptomatic at-risk subjects, unless they request it or are enrolled in research programmes. Genetic counselling in ALS should take into account the uncertainties about the pathogenicity and penetrance of some genetic mutations; the possible presence of mutations of different genes in the same individual; the poor genotypic/phenotypic correlation in most ALS genes; and the phenotypic pleiotropy of some genes. Though psychological, social and ethical implications of genetic testing are still relatively unexplored in ALS, we recommend multidisciplinary counselling that addresses all relevant issues, including disclosure of tests results to family members and the risk for genetic discrimination.

Hyperintense lesions around the resection cavity on magnetic resonance diffusion-weighted imaging (MR-DWI) frequently appear after brain tumor surgery due to the damage of surrounding brain. The putative connection between the lesion and the prognosis for patients with glioblastoma (GBM) was explored. This retrospective study reviewed consecutive sixty-one patients with newly diagnosed GBM. Postoperative MRI was performed within 2weeks after the initial surgery. We classified the cases into two groups depending on whether DWI hyperintense lesions were observed or not [DWI(+) group and DWI(-) group]. Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were compared between the two groups. Forty-two patients were identified. The various extents of hyperintense lesions around the resection cavity were observed in 28/42 (66.7%) cases. In the DWI(+) and DWI(-) groups, median PFS was 10.0 [95% confidence interval (CI) 8.4-11.5] and 6.7 (95% CI 4.9-8.5) months, respectively (p=0.042), and median OS was 18.0 (95% CI 12.2-23.8) and 17.0 (95% CI 15.7-18.3) months, respectively (p=0.254). On multivariate analysis, the presence of DWI hyperintense lesion was more likely to be an independent predictor for 6-month PFS (p=0.019; HR, 0.038; 95% CI 0.002-0.582). Tumor recurrence appeared outside the former DWI hyperintense lesion. Hyperintense lesions surrounding the resected GBM on MR-DWI might be a favorable prognostic factor in patients with GBM.
Understanding of frontotemporal lobar degeneration, the underlying pathology most often linked to the clinical diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia, is rapidly increasing. Mutations in 7 known genes (MAPT, GRN, C9orf72, VCP, CHMP2B, and, rarely, TARDBP and FUS) are associated with frontotemporal dementia, and the pathologic classification of frontotemporal lobar degeneration has recently been modified to reflect these discoveries. Mutations in one of these genes (GRN), which encodes progranulin, have been implicated in up to a quarter of cases of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 (TAR DNA-binding protein 43)-positive inclusions; currently, there are more than 60 known pathogenic mutations of the gene. We present the clinical, pathologic, and genetic findings on 6 cases from 4 families, 5 of which were shown to have a novel GRN c.708+6_+9delTGAG mutation.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are master regulators of innate immunity and play an integral role in the activation of inflammatory response during infections. In addition, TLRs influence the body's response to numerous forms of injury. Recent data have shown that TLRs play a modulating role in ischemic brain damage after stroke. Interestingly, their stimulation before ischemia induces a tolerant state that is neuroprotective. This phenomenon, referred to as TLR preconditioning, is the result of the reprogramming of TLR response to ischemic injury. This review addresses the role of TLRs in brain ischemia and the activation of endogenous neuroprotective pathways in the setting of preconditioning. We highlight the protective role of interferon-related response and the potential site of action for TLR preconditioning involving the blood-brain barrier. Pharmacologic modulation of TLR activation to promote protection against stroke is a promising approach for the development of prophylactic and immediate therapies targeting ischemic brain injury.
Intracerebral-intraventricular hemorrhages (ICH/IVH) in very preterm neonates are responsible for high mortality and subsequent disabilities. In humans, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) initiates fibrinolysis and activates endoluminal-endothelial receptors; dysfunction of the t-PA inhibitor (PAI-1) results in recurrent hemorrhages. We used PAI-1 knockout (PAI-1) mice to examine the role of t-PA in age-dependent intracranial hemorrhages as a possible model of preterm ICH/IVH. Intracortical injection of 2 L of phosphate-buffered saline produced a small traumatic injury and a high rate of hemorrhage in PAI-1 pups at postnatal day 3 (P3) or P5, whereas it had no effect in wild-type neonates. This resulted in white matter and cortical lesions, ventricle enlargement, hyperlocomotion, and altered cortical levels of serotonin and dopamine in the adult PAI mice. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockers, plasmin- and matrix metalloproteinases inhibitors reduced hemorrhage and tissue lesions. In contrast to P3 to P5, no significant hemorrhages were induced in P10 PAI-1 pups and there were no behavioral or neurochemical alterations in adulthood. These data suggest that microvascular immaturity up to P5 in mice is a determinant factor required for t-PA-dependent vascular rupture. Neonatal PAI-1 mice could be a useful ICH/IVH model for studying the ontogenic window of vascular immaturity and vascular protection against later neurodisabilities.
Dystroglycanopathies are a subtype of congenital muscular dystrophy of varying severity that can affect the brain and eyes, ranging from Walker-Warburg syndrome with severe brain malformation to milder congenital muscular dystrophy presentations with affected or normal cognition and later onset. Mutations in dystroglycanopathy genes affect a specific glycoepitope on -dystroglycan; of the 14 genes implicated to date, LARGE encodes the glycosyltransferase that adds the final xylose and glucuronic acid, allowing -dystroglycan to bind ligands, including laminin 211 and neurexin. Only 11 patients with LARGE mutations have been reported. We report the clinical, neuroimaging, and genetic features of 4 additional patients. We confirm that gross deletions and rearrangements are important mutational mechanisms for LARGE. The brain abnormalities overshadowed the initially mild muscle phenotype in all 4 patients. We present the first comprehensive postnatal neuropathology of the brain, spinal cord, and eyes of a patient with a homozygous LARGE mutation at Cys443. In this patient, polymicrogyria was the predominant cortical malformation; densely festooned polymicrogyria were overlaid by a continuous agyric surface. In view of the severity of these abnormalities, Cys443 may be a functionally important residue in the LARGE protein, whereas the mutation p.Glu509Lys of Patient 1 in this study may confer a milder phenotype. Overall, these results expand the clinical and genetic spectrum of dystroglycanopathy.
The development of nondopaminergic therapeutic strategies that may improve motor and nonmotor deficits, while possibly slowing down the neurodegenerative process and associated neuroinflammation,is a primary goal of Parkinson disease (PD) research. We investigated the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory potential of combined and single treatment with adenosine A2A and cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonists MSX-3 and rimonabant, respectively, in a rodent model of PD. Rats bearing a unilateral intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion were treated chronically with MSX-3 (0.5or 1 mg/kg/d) and rimonabant (0.1 mg/kg/d) given as monotherapy or combined. The effects of the treatments to counteract dopaminergic cell death and neuroinflammation were assessed by immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase and glial cell markers, respectively. Both rimonabant and MSX-3 (1 mg/kg/d) promoted dopaminergic neuron survival in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) when given alone; this effect was weakened when the compounds were combined. Glial activation was not significantly affected by MSX-3 (1 mg/kg/d), whereas rimonabant seemed to increase astrocyte cell density in the SNc. Our findings demonstrate the neuroprotective potential of single treatments and suggest that glial cells might be involved in this protective effect. The results also indicate that the neuroprotective potential of combined therapy may not necessarily reflect or promote single-drug effects and point out that special care should be taken when considering multidrug therapies in PD.
To contribute appropriately to voluntary reaching during body motion, vestibular signals must be transformed from a head-centered to a body-centered reference frame. We quantitatively investigated the evidence for this transformation during online reach execution by using galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) to simulate rotation about a head-fixed, roughly naso-occipital axis as human subjects made planar reaching movements to a remembered location with their head in different orientations. If vestibular signals that contribute to reach execution have been transformed from a head-centered to a body-centered reference frame, the same stimulation should be interpreted as body tilt with the head upright but as vertical-axis rotation with the head inclined forward. Consequently, GVS should perturb reach trajectories in a head-orientation-dependent way. Consistent with this prediction, GVS applied during reach execution induced trajectory deviations that were significantly larger with the head forward compared with upright. Only with the head forward were trajectories consistently deviated in opposite directions for rightward versus leftward simulated rotation, as appropriate to compensate for body vertical-axis rotation. These results demonstrate that vestibular signals contributing to online reach execution have indeed been transformed from a head-centered to a body-centered reference frame. Reach deviation amplitudes were comparable to those predicted for ideal compensation for body rotation using a biomechanical limb model. Finally, by comparing the effects of application of GVS during reach execution versus prior to reach onset we also provide evidence that spatially transformed vestibular signals contribute to at least partially distinct compensation mechanisms for body motion during reach planning versus execution.
The dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) is a cerebellum-like auditory brain stem region whose functions include sound localization and multisensory integration. Although previous in vivo studies have shown that glycinergic and GABAergic inhibition regulate the activity of several DCN cell types in response to sensory stimuli, data regarding the synaptic inputs onto DCN inhibitory interneurons remain limited. Using acute DCN slices from mice, we examined the properties of excitatory and inhibitory synapses onto the superficial stellate cell, a poorly understood cell type that provides inhibition to DCN output neurons (fusiform cells) as well as to local inhibitory interneurons (cartwheel cells). Excitatory synapses onto stellate cells activated both NMDA receptors and fast-gating, Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors. Inhibition onto superficial stellate cells was mediated by glycine and GABAA receptors with different temporal kinetics. Paired recordings revealed that superficial stellate cells make reciprocal synapses and autapses, with a connection probability of  18-20%. Unexpectedly, superficial stellate cells co-released both glycine and GABA, suggesting that co-transmission may play a role in fine-tuning the duration of inhibitory transmission.

Preconception exposure to EtOH through the paternal route may affect neurobehavioral and developmental features of offspring. This study investigates the effects of paternal exposure to EtOH before conception on the hyperactivity, inattention, and impulsivity behavior of male offspring in mice. Sire mice were treated with EtOH in a concentration range approximating human binge drinking (0-4 g/kg/day EtOH) for 7 weeks and mated with untreated females mice to produce offspring. EtOH exposure to sire mice induced attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)-like hyperactive, inattentive, and impulsive behaviors in offspring. As a mechanistic link, both protein and mRNA expression of dopamine transporter (DAT), a key determinant of ADHD-like phenotypes in experimental animals and humans, were significantly decreased by paternal EtOH exposure in cerebral cortex and striatum of offspring mice along with increased methylation of a CpG region of the DAT gene promoter. The increase in methylation of DAT gene promoter was also observed in the sperm of sire mice, suggesting germline changes in the epigenetic methylation signature of DAT gene by EtOH exposure. In addition, the expression of two key regulators of methylation-dependent epigenetic regulation of functional gene expression, namely, MeCP2 and DNMT1, was markedly decreased in offspring cortex and striatum sired by EtOH-exposed mice. These results suggest that preconceptional exposure to EtOH through the paternal route induces behavioral changes in offspring, possibly via epigenetic changes in gene expression, which is essential for the regulation of ADHD-like behaviors.
The PA6 stromal cell line comprises a heterogeneous population of cells that can induce both mouse and human embryonic stem cells to differentiate into dopaminergic neurons. This ability of PA6 cells has been termed stromal cell-derived inducing activity (SDIA). The level of SDIA has been found to vary considerably between and within batches of PA6 cells. Not only are the molecular mechanisms that underlie SDIA unknown but also the cell type(s) within the heterogeneous PA6 cultures that underlie SDIA remain poorly defined. In this study, we reveal that adipocytes, which are present within the heterogeneous PA6 cell population, robustly release the factors mediating SDIA. Furthermore, we report that the coculture of human embryonic stem cells with PA6-derived adipocytes reliably induces their differentiation into midbrain dopaminergic neurons.
Although systematic studies have demonstrated that acupuncture or electroacupuncture (EA) analgesia is based on their accelerating endogenous opioid release to activate opioid receptors and that EA of different frequencies is mediated by different opioid receptors in specific areas of the central nervous system, there is little direct, real-time evidence to confirm this in vivo. The present study was designed to investigate the effects of transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (TEAS), an analogue of EA, at low and high frequencies on -opioid receptor (MOR) availability in the brain of rhesus monkeys. Monkeys underwent 95-min positron emission tomography (PET) with (11) C-carfentanil three times randomly while receiving 0, 2, or 100 Hz TEAS, respectively. Each TEAS was administered in the middle 30 min during the 95-min PET scan, and each session of PET and TEAS was separated by at least 2 weeks. The results revealed that 2 Hz but not 100 Hz TEAS evoked a significant increase in MOR binding potential in the anterior cingulate cortex, the caudate nucleus, the putamen, the temporal lobe, the somatosensory cortex, and the amygdala compared with 0 Hz TEAS. The effect remained after the end of TEAS in the anterior cingulate cortex and the temporal lobe. The selective increase in MOR availability in multiple brain regions related to pain and sensory processes may play a role in mediating low-frequency TEAS efficacy.
Upregulation of extracellular chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPG) is a primary cause for the failure of axons to regenerate after spinal cord injury (SCI), and the beneficial effect of their degradation by chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) is widely documented. Little is known, however, about the effect of ChABC treatment on astrogliosis and revascularization, two important factors influencing axon regrowth. This was investigated in the present study. Immediately after a spinal cord hemisection at thoracic level 8-9, we injected ChABC intrathecally at the sacral level, repeated three times until 10 days post-injury. Our results show an effective cleavage of CSPG glycosaminoglycan chains and stimulation of axonal remodeling within the injury site, accompanied by an extended period of astrocyte remodeling (up to 4 weeks). Interestingly, ChABC treatment favored an orientation of astrocytic processes directed toward the injury, in close association with axons at the lesion entry zone, suggesting a correlation between axon and astrocyte remodeling. Further, during the first weeks post-injury, ChABC treatment affected the morphology of laminin-positive blood vessel basement membranes and vessel-independent laminin deposits: hypertrophied blood vessels with detached or duplicated basement membrane were more numerous than in lesioned untreated animals. In contrast, at later time points, laminin expression increased and became more directly associated with newly formed blood vessels, the size of which tended to be closer to that found in intact tissue. Our data reinforce the idea that ChABC injection in combination with other synergistic treatments is a promising therapeutic strategy for SCI repair.


Abstract This study proposes a sonographic feature of the placenta in association with benign vaginal bleeding. A total of 286 normal singleton pregnancies were examined for 'anteroposterior, AP, placenta', which was reported when the placenta was attached to both anterior and posterior walls of the uterus in sagittal transabdominal ultrasound scans. Pregnancies were followed up by week 20. AP placenta, vaginal bleeding and spontaneous abortion were documented in 61 (21.3%), 44 (15.4%) and 2 (0.7%) pregnant women, respectively. AP placenta was significantly more common in the group with vaginal bleeding (54.5% vs 1.3%, p &lt; 0.001, odds ratio = 6.65 with a 0.95 confidence interval of 3.34-13.24). Abortions occurred only in patients with vaginal bleeding and no AP placenta (10% vs 0%; p = 0.20). In a normal clinical pregnancy with no known risk of miscarriage, the presence of an AP placenta usually forecasts a benign vaginal bleeding/spotting in first 20 weeks of gestation.


The effect of blockade of either 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)/serotonin transporter (SERT) with citalopram or the organic cation transporter 3 (OCT3)/plasma membrane monoamine transporter (PMAT) with decynium-22 (D-22) on spontaneous and evoked release of 5-HT in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) was investigated in rat brainstem slices treated with gabazine. 5-HT release was measured indirectly by changes in the frequency and amplitude of glutamatergic miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) [in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX)] and evoked EPSCs. Blockade of 5-HT3 receptors with granisetron reduced, whereas the 5-HT3 agonist phenylbiguanide increased, the frequency of mEPSCs. 5-HT decreased mEPSC frequency at low concentrations and increased frequency at high concentrations. This inhibition was blocked by the 5-HT1A antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide (WAY-100635), which was ineffective on its own, whereas the excitation was reversed by granisetron. The addition of citalopram or D-22 caused inhibition, which was prevented by 5-HT1A blockade. Thus, in the NTS, the spontaneous release of 5-HT is able to activate 5-HT3 receptors, but not 5-HT1A receptors, as the release in their vicinity is removed by uptake. The ineffectiveness of corticosterone suggests that the low-affinity, high-capacity transporter is PMAT, not OCT3. For evoked 5-HT release, only D-22 caused an increase in the amplitude of EPSCs, with a decrease in the paired pulse ratio, and increased the number of spontaneous EPSCs after 20-Hz stimulation. Thus, for the evoked release of 5-HT, the low-affinity, high-capacity transporter PMAT, but not 5-HT transporter (5-HTT)/SERT, is important in the regulation of changes in 5-HT extracellular concentration.
Clinically used calcineurin inhibitors, including tacrolimus (FK506) and cyclosporine A, can induce calcineurin inhibitor-induced pain syndrome (CIPS), which is characterized as severe pain and pain hypersensitivity. Increased synaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activity in the spinal dorsal horn plays a critical role in the development of CIPS. Casein kinase II (CK2), a serine/threonine protein kinase, can regulate synaptic NMDAR activity in the brain. In this study, we determined whether spinal CK2 is involved in increased NMDAR activity and pain hypersensitivity caused by systemic administration of FK506 in rats. FK506 treatment caused a large increase in the amplitude of NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by primary afferent stimulation and in the frequency of miniature EPSCs of spinal dorsal horn neurons. CK2 inhibition with either 5,6-dichloro-1--d-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB) or 4,5,6,7-tetrabromobenzotriazole (TBB) completely normalized the amplitude of evoked NMDAR-EPSCs of dorsal horn neurons in FK506-treated rats. In addition, DRB or TBB significantly attenuated the amplitude of NMDAR currents elicited by puff application of N-methyl-D-aspartate to dorsal horn neurons in FK506-treated rats. Furthermore, treatment with DRB or TBB significantly reduced the frequency of miniature EPSCs of spinal dorsal horn neurons increased by FK506 treatment. In addition, intrathecal injection of DRB or TBB dose-dependently reversed tactile allodynia and mechanical hyperalgesia in FK506-treated rats. Collectively, our findings indicate that CK2 inhibition abrogates pain hypersensitivity and increased pre- and postsynaptic NMDAR activity in the spinal cord caused by calcineurin inhibitors. CK2 inhibitors may represent a new therapeutic option for the treatment of CIPS.
One of the sensory complications of traumatic peripheral nerve injury is thermal intolerance, which manifests in humans mainly as cold intolerance. It has a major effect on the quality of life, and adequate therapy is not yet available. In order to better understand the pathophysiological background of thermal intolerance, we focus first on the various transient receptor potential (TRP) channels that are involved in temperature sensation, including their presence in peripheral nerves and in keratinocytes. Second, the role of thermo-sensitive TRP channels in cold and heat intolerance is described showing three different mechanisms that contribute to thermal intolerance in the skin: (a) an increased expression of TRP channels on nerve fibres and on keratinocytes, (b) a lower activation threshold of TRP channels and (c) the sprouting of non-injured nerve fibres. Finally, the data that are available on the effects of TRP channel agonists and antagonists and their clinical use are discussed. In conclusion, TRP channels play a major role in temperature sensation and in cold and heat intolerance. Unfortunately, the available pharmaceutical agents that successfully target TRP channels and counteract thermal intolerance are still very limited. Yet, our focus should remain on TRP channels since it is difficult to imagine a reliable treatment for thermal intolerance that will not involve TRP channels.
Background. Comorbid substance use disorders (SUD) are associated with increased illness severity and functional impairment among adolescents with bipolar disorder (BD). Previous psychosocial treatment studies have excluded adolescents with both BD and SUD. Studies suggest that integrated interventions are optimal for adults with BD and SUD. Methods. We modified family-focused treatment for adolescents with BD (FFT-A) in order to explicitly target comorbid SUD (FFT-SUD). Ten adolescents with BD who had both SUD and an exacerbation of manic, depressed, or mixed symptoms within the last 3 months were enrolled. FFT-SUD was offered as an adjunct to pharmacotherapy, with a target of 21 sessions over 12 months of treatment. The FFT- SUD manual was iteratively modified to integrate a concurrent focus on SUD. Results. Six subjects completed a mid-treatment 6-month assessment (after a mean of 16 sessions was completed). Of the 10 subjects, 3 dropped out early (after 1 session); in the case of each of these subjects, the participating parent had active SUD. No other subjects in the study had a parent with active SUD. Preliminary findings suggested significant reductions in manic symptoms and depressive symptoms and improved global functioning in the subjects who completed 6 months of treatment. Reduction in cannabis use was modest and did not reach significance. Limitations. Limitations included a small sample, open treatment, concurrent medications, and no control group. Conclusions. These preliminary findings suggest that FFT-SUD is a feasible intervention, particularly for youth without parental SUD. FFT-SUD may be effective in treating mood symptoms, particularly depression, despite modest reductions in substance use. Integrating motivation enhancing strategies may augment the effect of this intervention on substance use. Additional strategies, such as targeting parental substance use, may prevent early attrition.(Journal of Psychiatric Practice 2014;20:237-248).
This column reviews the evolution of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) mental health advocacy in relation to modern mental health advocacy efforts. In addition to developments in organized psychiatry (e.g., American Psychiatric Association's LGBT caucus), grassroots LGBT community initiatives are playing an important role (e.g., Trevor Project providing crisis intervention/suicide prevention services to LGBT youth, face-to-face mental health services in LGBT community centers). Studies have found that LGBT individuals are at increased risk for mental health problems (e.g., depression, anxiety, substance misuse, suicidal ideation, self-harm). Mental health advocacy in the LGBT community has been slowed by the long-standing association of the concept of homosexuality with psychopathology in mainstream psychiatry (e.g., homosexuality was only removed from the DSM in 1973, ego dystonic homosexuality still appears in the ICD-10). However, positive developments in LGBT mental health advocacy have been fostered by the proposed minority stress model (i.e., that elevated risk of mental illness in LGBT individuals is a consequence of a hostile stressful environment). A particularly encouraging initiative is the It Gets Better Project, in which thousands of videos, some by prominent individuals, have been posted online to send a message of hope to LGBT youth facing harassment and low self-esteem. (Journal of Psychiatric Practice 2014;20:225-227.
Exposure to early life stress (ELS) is strongly associated with poor treatment outcomes, particularly for trauma-associated disorders such as depression. Little research to date, however, has examined the potential effects of ELS on outcomes with newer treatments, such as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). This study evaluated whether ELS exposure impacts resting state functional connectivity associated with brain regions targeted by rTMS. Twenty-seven medication-free adults without psychiatric or medical illness (14 with a history of at least moderate ELS) were scanned using a 3T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner during two 4-min rest periods. The primary targets of rTMS, the left and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), were utilized as seed regions in connectivity analyses. Relative to controls, when seeding the left DLPFC, ELS subjects demonstrated significantly increased local connectivity with the left middle frontal gyrus and negative connectivity with the left precuneus. ELS status was also associated with negative connectivity from the right DLPFC to the left precuneus and left inferior parietal lobule. These findings demonstrate greater dissociation between the executive and default mode networks in individuals with a history of ELS, and these results may inform neuroimaging assessments in future rTMS studies of ELS-related conditions.



The pharmacological properties of two NK1 antagonists were studied in comparison with a benzodiazepine during a 7% CO2 challenge in a population of healthy volunteers selected for a high sensitivity to the challenge. In total, 19 healthy subjects, pre-screened for their responsiveness to the 7% CO2 test, took part in the randomised, double-blind, cross-over, incomplete block design study. After receiving treatment or placebo, the volunteers were subjected to three 7% CO2 challenges each for a time of 20 min. The treatment consisted of the administration of the following three active drugs: a single dose of benzodiazepine alprazolam (0.75 mg) and a single dose of the NK1 antagonists vestipitant (GW597599) (15 mg) and vofopitant (GR205171) (25 mg). Anxiety during the challenge was evaluated with Visual Analogue Scale-Anxiety (VAS-A) and with Panic Symptom List (PSL III-R). Respiratory parameters, heart rate and skin conductance were also recorded. Compared with placebo, vestipitant showed a significant reduction (p&lt;0.05) in anxiety assessed on the VAS-A scale (VAS-A%) while alprazolam significantly (p&lt;0.01) attenuated the PSL III-R total score. Vofopitant did not show any anxiolytic effect. In the comparison analysis between placebo and drugs, none of the respiratory and other physiological parameters showed a statistically significant difference.










Only 8 studies have investigated the incidence and epidemiology of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) in the United States. This is the first investigation in Indiana, which has some of the highest rates of tobacco smoking and obesity in the nation. The authors prospectively identified 441 consecutive patients with aSAH from 2005 to 2010 at 2 hospitals where the majority of cases are treated. Incidence calculations were based on US Census populations. Epidemiologic variables included demography; risk factors; Hunt and Hess scale; Fisher grade; number, location, and size of aneurysms; treatment type; and complications. Overall incidence was 21.8 per 100,000 population. Incidence was higher in women, increased with age, and did not vary by race. One third to half of patients were hypertensive and/or smoked cigarettes at the time of ictus. Variations by count were partially explained by Health Factor and Morbidity Rankings. Complications varied by treatment. These findings deviate from estimates that 6-16 per 100,000 people in the United States will develop aSAH and are double the incidence in a Minnesota population between 1945 and 1974. The results also deviate from the worldwide estimate of 9.0 aSAHs per 100,000 person-years. The predictive value of variations in Health Factor and Morbidity Rankings implicates the importance of future research on multivariate biopsychosocial causation of aSAH.



Spontaneous dissection of the vertebral artery (VA) is a major vascular lesion causing lateral medullary infarction (LMI). A dilated surface appearance of the VA is a feature of VA dissection and can be observed on basiparallel anatomic scanning (BPAS)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The aim of this study was to validate BPAS-MRI in the diagnosis of VA dissection in patients with LMI. The subjects of the present study were 41 consecutive patients with LMI within 7days of onset. The diagnosis of VA dissection was made with the clinical criteria-based diagnosis. Percent (%) dilatation of the VA on BPAS-MRI was calculated by comparing the maximum surface diameter of the intracranial VA to the diameter of the distal normal surface of the VA. Fourteen patients (34%) were diagnosed with VA dissection. The optimal cutoff % dilatation of the VA for dissection was more than 169%. The sensitivity and specificity of % dilatation of VA more than 169% and aneurysmal dilatation, stenosis, or occlusion on magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) for VA dissection were 92.9% and 81.5%, respectively. BPAS-MRI combined with time-of-flight-MRA is a useful tool for the diagnosis of VA dissection in patients with acute LMI.
We present an approach for the preparation of immuno-labelled ultrathin sections from cells or tissue that are compatible with both fluorescence and transmission electron microscopy. Our approach is inspired by a method of Sabanay et al. (1991) that is based on the Tokuyasu technique for immunogold labelling of sections from aldehyde-fixed samples. The difference of this method with the original Tokuyasu technique is that the immuno-labelled sections are stabilized in a thin layer of vitreous water by plunge-freezing prior to electron microscopical observation. The vitrification step allows for phase contrast-based imaging at cryogenic conditions. We show that this immuno-labelling method is well-suited for imaging cellular ultrastructure in three dimensions (tomography) at cryogenic conditions, and that fluorescence associated with the sections is retained. This method is a valuable tool for Correlative Light and Electron Microscopy (CLEM), and we refer to this method in combination with CLEM as VOS (vitrification of sections). We provide examples for the application of VOS using dendritic cells and neurons, and show specifically that this method enables the researcher to navigate to lysosomes and synapses.
Abuse of prescription opioids is becoming increasingly widespread. This study compared the social, health and treatment-related factors associated with buprenorphine and amphetamine abuse in Finland. Structured clinical interviews were conducted with clients seeking treatment for buprenorphine (n=670) or amphetamine (n=557) abuse in Helsinki from January 2001 to August 2008. Unadjusted and adjusted odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were computed for factors associated with buprenorphine compared to amphetamine abuse. In multivariate analyses, buprenorphine abuse was associated with male gender (OR 1.57, 95% CI 1.17-2.09), daily abuse (OR 5.45, 95% CI 4.14-7.18), no drug free months during the last year (OR 1.68, 95%CI 1.23-2.29), and inversely associated with increasing age (OR 0.95, 95% CI 0.93-0.97 per year) and psychotic symptoms (OR 0.33, 95% CI 0.24-0.45). Despite more intense abuse patterns, clients seeking treatment for buprenorphine abuse shared similar characteristics to amphetamine clients. These characteristics were different to characteristics of those who abuse prescription opioids in North America. This is important for developing and targeting intervention programs.
Substance abuse is related to re-offending, and treatment of substance abuse may reduce criminal recidivism. Offender characteristics including problem severity, violence risk and psychopathic personality traits may be positively or negatively associated with participation in substance abuse treatment. We explored the relationships between such characteristics and participation in substance abuse interventions among Swedish offenders with mental health problems and problematic substance use. Our analyses revealed that problem severity regarding drugs, employment, and family/social situations predicted intervention participation, and that affective psychopathic personality traits were negatively associated with such participation. Thus, affective psychopathic personality traits could be considered as potential barriers to participation in substance abuse interventions. Among offenders with mental health problems and problematic substance use, such personality traits should be taken into account in order to optimize treatment participation and treatment outcome. Approaches used in cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT) could be applicable for these patients.

The effect of intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) according to etiology and stroke severity in young patients with ischemic stroke (IS) has not been described previously. To analyze the effect of IVT in young patients with IS according to etiological subtype and stroke severity. Observational study with inclusion of IS patients under 55 years of age (2007-2012). Two groups were compared according to IVT treatment. Favorable outcomes were defined as 3 months modified Rankin Scale 2. Multivariate analyses were performed to determine those factors independently associated with favorable outcomes, and subgroup analyses were conducted to assess the effect of IVT according to etiological stroke subtype and severity on admission, adjusted for other prognostic variables. We evaluated 262 patients. 63 (24%) received IVT. The mean age and the sex distribution were similar in the IVT treated and the non-treated groups. Multivariate analyses showed that IVT was associated with a higher probability of favorable outcome (OR, 95% CI: 4.652, 1.294-16.722) whereas artery dissection (OR, 95% CI: 0.191, 0.056-0.654) and NIHSS (OR, 95% CI: 0.727, 0.664-0.797) were associated with a lower probability of a favorable outcome. The subgroup analysis showed that the beneficial effect of IVT on outcomes was significant in moderate-severe strokes (NIHSS 8) (OR, 95% CI: 3.782, 1.095-13.069) and in cardioembolism (OR, 95% CI: 41.887, 1.001-1751.596). In IS patients under 55 years of age, those with moderate-severe strokes benefit more from IVT than those with mild strokes. Cardioembolic infarctions may benefit more from IV tPA than other etiologies.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in their immature state express a variety of genes of the three germ layers at relatively low or moderate levels that might explain their phenomenal plasticity. Numerous recent studies have demonstrated that under the appropriate conditions in vitro and in vivo the expression of different sets of these genes can be upregulated, turning MSCs into variety of cell lineages of mesodermal, ectodermal and endodermal origin. While transdifferentiation of MSCs is still controversial, these unique properties make MSCs an ideal autologous source of easily reprogrammable cells. Recently, using the approach of cell reprogramming by biological active compounds that interfere with chromatin structure and function, as well as with specific signalling pathways that promote neural fate commitment, we have been able to generate neural-like cells from human bone marrow (BM)-derived MSCs (hMSCs). However, the efficiency of neural transformation of hMSCs induced by this approach gradually declined with passaging. To elucidate the mechanisms that underlie the higher plasticity of early-passage hMSCs, comparative analysis of the expression levels of several pluripotent and neural genes was conducted for early- and late-passage hMSCs. The results demonstrated that early-passage hMSCs expressed the majority of these genes at low and moderate levels that gradually declined at late passages. Neural induction further increased the expression of some of these genes in hMSCs, accompanied by morphological changes into neural-like cells. We concluded that low and moderate expression of several pluripotent and neural genes in early-passage hMSCs could explain their higher plasticity and pliability for neural induction.

Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)-derived noncoding control region (NCCR) sequences permitted greater early viral gene expression than kidney-associated NCCR sequences. This was driven in part by binding of the transcription factor Spi-B to unique PML-associated Spi-B binding sites. Spi-B is upregulated in developing B cells in response to natalizumab therapy, a known risk factor for PML. Naturally occurring JCV sequence variation, together with drug treatment-induced cellular changes, may synergize to create an environment leading to an increased risk of PML.

Despite the frequent association between anxiety and somatization, the role of somatic anxiety--a tendency to experience somatic sensations, when anxious--in relationship to persistent somatic complaints has not been addressed previously. This study assessed the predictive role of internalizing psychopathology (anxiety, posttraumatic stress, depression) and somatic anxiety for somatic complaints over a 1-year period in a community sample of urban youth. The Social and Health Assessment, a self-report survey, was administered to 2,524 (mean age = 12.8, 54 % female) American urban adolescents in two consecutive years. There was significant continuity of somatic complaints over 1 year. Girls reported higher levels of somatic complaints and somatic anxiety than boys. All types of internalizing psychopathology significantly predicted somatic complaints over time. Somatic anxiety was associated with somatic complaints over and above the role of internalizing symptoms. Internalizing psychopathology and somatic anxiety should both be considered in the assessment and treatment of youth with persistent somatic complaints.



IMPORTANCE Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), an antioxidant that supports mitochondrial function, has been shown in preclinical Parkinson disease (PD) models to reduce the loss of dopamine neurons, and was safe and well tolerated in early-phase human studies. A previous phase II study suggested possible clinical benefit. OBJECTIVE To examine whether CoQ10 could slow disease progression in early PD. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS A phase III randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial at 67 North American sites consisting of participants 30 years of age or older who received a diagnosis of PD within 5 years and who had the following inclusion criteria: the presence of a rest tremor, bradykinesia, and rigidity; a modified Hoehn and Yahr stage of 2.5 or less; and no anticipated need for dopaminergic therapy within 3 months. Exclusion criteria included the use of any PD medication within 60 days, the use of any symptomatic PD medication for more than 90 days, atypical or drug-induced parkinsonism, a Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) rest tremor score of 3 or greater for any limb, a Mini-Mental State Examination score of 25 or less, a history of stroke, the use of certain supplements, and substantial recent exposure to CoQ10. Of 696 participants screened, 78 were found to be ineligible, and 18 declined participation. INTERVENTIONS The remaining 600 participants were randomly assigned to receive placebo, 1200 mg/d of CoQ10, or 2400 mg/d of CoQ10; all participants received 1200 IU/d of vitamin E. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Participants were observed for 16 months or until a disability requiring dopaminergic treatment. The prospectively defined primary outcome measure was the change in total UPDRS score (Parts I-III) from baseline to final visit. The study was powered to detect a 3-point difference between an active treatment and placebo. RESULTS The baseline characteristics of the participants were well balanced, the mean age was 62.5 years, 66% of participants were male, and the mean baseline total UPDRS score was 22.7. A total of 267 participants required treatment (94 received placebo, 87 received 1200 mg/d of CoQ10, and 86 received 2400 mg/d of CoQ10), and 65 participants (29 who received placebo, 19 who received 1200 mg/d of CoQ10, and 17 who received 2400 mg/d of CoQ10) withdrew prematurely. Treatments were well tolerated with no safety concerns. The study was terminated after a prespecified futility criterion was reached. At study termination, both active treatment groups showed slight adverse trends relative to placebo. Adjusted mean changes (worsening) in total UPDRS scores from baseline to final visit were 6.9 points (placebo), 7.5 points (1200 mg/d of CoQ10; P=.49 relative to placebo), and 8.0 points (2400 mg/d of CoQ10; P=.21 relative to placebo). CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Coenzyme Q10 was safe and well tolerated in this population, but showed no evidence of clinical benefit. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00740714.
IMPORTANCE Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1), the most common muscular dystrophy observed in adults, is a genetic multisystem disorder affecting several other organs besides skeletal muscle, including the brain. Cognitive and personality abnormalities have been reported; however, no studies have investigated brain functional networks and their relationship with personality traits/disorders in patients with DM1. OBJECTIVE To use resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess the potential relationship between personality traits/disorders and changes to functional connectivity within the default mode network (DMN) in patients with DM1. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS We enrolled 27 patients with genetically confirmed DM1 and 16 matched healthy control individuals. Patients underwent personality assessment using clinical interview and Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 administration; all participants underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. Investigations were conducted at the Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico Santa Lucia Foundation, Catholic University of Sacred Heart, and Azienda Ospedaliera San Camillo Forlanini. INTERVENTION Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Measures of personality traits in patients and changes in functional connectivity within the DMN in patients and controls. Changes in functional connectivity and atypical personality traits in patients were correlated. RESULTS We combined results obtained from the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 and clinical interview to identify a continuum of atypical personality profiles ranging from schizotypal personality traits to paranoid personality disorder within our DM1 patients. We also demonstrated an increase in functional connectivity in the bilateral posterior cingulate and left parietal DMN nodes in DM1 patients compared with controls. Moreover, patients with DM1 showed strong associations between DMN functional connectivity and schizotypal-paranoid traits. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Our findings provide novel biological evidence that DM1 is a clinical condition that also involves an alteration of functional connectivity of the brain. We speculate that these functional brain abnormalities, similarly to frank psychiatric disorders, may account for the atypical personality traits observed in patients with DM1.
IMPORTANCE Infection with JC virus (JCV) may lead to development of demyelinating progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who are treated with natalizumab. OBJECTIVE To determine whether mononuclear cells in circulation from MS patients treated with natalizumab harbor JCV DNA. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS In this prospective investigation, we enrolled 49 MS patients from the Clinical Center for Multiple Sclerosis at The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and 18 healthy volunteers. We drew 120-mL blood samples from 26 MS patients at baseline and at approximately 3-month intervals to 10 months during the course of natalizumab infusions. One blood sample was drawn from 23 MS patients receiving natalizumab for more than 24 months and from 18 healthy volunteers. INTERVENTIONS Natalizumab treatment of MS. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES The blood samples were separated using flow cytometry into CD34+, CD19+, and CD3+ cell subsets; DNA templates were prepared using quantitative polymerase chain reaction for JCV DNA identification. Plasma samples were tested for anti-JCV antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays performed at the Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Neuroscience, National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Diseases and Stroke. RESULTS Thirteen of the 26 patients (50%) with baseline and follow-up blood samples had detectable viral DNA in at least 1 cell compartment at 1 or more points. Ten of the 23 patients (44%) receiving treatment for more than 24 months and 3 of the 18 healthy volunteers (17%) also had detectable viral DNA in 1 or more cell compartment. Fifteen of the 49 MS patients (31%) were confirmed to harbor JCV in CD34+ cells and 12 of 49 (24%) in CD19+ cells. Only 1 of 18 healthy volunteers were viremic in CD34+ cells and none in CD19+ cells. Nine patients and 1 healthy volunteer were viremic but had seronegative test results for JCV antibodies. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE JC virus DNA was detectable within cell compartments of natalizumab-treated MS patients after treatment inception and longer. JC virus DNA may harbor in CD34+ cells in bone marrow that mobilize into the peripheral circulation at high concentrations. Latently infected cells initiate differentiation to CD19+ cells that favors growth of JCV. These data link the mechanism of natalizumab treatment with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.

IMPORTANCE Myoclonus-dystonia (M-D) is a clinical syndrome characterized by a combination of myoclonic jerks and mild to moderate dystonia. The syndrome is related to -sarcoglycan (SGCE) gene mutations in about half the typical cases. Whether the M-D phenotype reflects a primary dysfunction of the cerebellothalamocortical pathway or of the striatopallidothalamocortical pathway is unclear. The exact role of an additional cortical dysfunction in the pathogenesis of M-D is also unknown. OBJECTIVE To clarify the neurophysiological features of M-D and discuss whether M-D due to SGCE deficiency differs from other primary dystonias. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS We studied a referred sample of 12 patients with M-D (mean [SD] age, 28.8 [6.2] years; age range, 19-38 years; 5 women) belonging to 11 unrelated families with a proven mutation or deletion of the SGCE gene and a group of 12 age- and sex-matched healthy control individuals. Every participant underwent 3 sessions exploring the excitability of the primary motor cortex, the response of the primary motor cortex to a plasticity-inducing protocol, and the cerebellar-dependent eye-blink classic conditioning (EBCC). The clinical evaluation of patients included the Unified Myoclonus Rating Scale and Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale. EXPOSURE Myoclonus-dystonia with a proven SGCE mutation. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES We measured resting and active motor thresholds, and short-interval intracortical inhibition and facilitation. The plasticity of the motor cortex was evaluated before and for 30 minutes after 600 pulses of rapid paired associative stimulation. The cerebellar functioning was evaluated with the number of conditioned responses during the 6 blocks of EBCC and 1 extinction block. All data were compared between the 2 groups. For patients, correlations were explored between electrophysiological data and clinical scores. RESULTS We found lower membrane excitability of the corticocortical axons and normal intracortical -aminobutyric acid inhibition in contrast with what has been described in other forms of primary dystonia. Myoclonus-dystonia patients also shared some common pathophysiological features of dystonia, including enhanced responsiveness of the motor cortex to plasticity induction and abnormal response to cerebellar conditioning as tested by EBCC. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Specific underlying dysfunctions are associated with the very particular clinical phenotype of M-D and make it a unique entity that stands apart from other primary dystonias.
IMPORTANCE Previous studies suggest cross-sectional associations between a diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). However, few studies have assessed whether COPD, a potentially modifiable factor, is associated with an increased risk for MCI and whether the relation is specific to the type of MCI. OBJECTIVE To investigate whether a diagnosis of COPD and duration of COPD are associated with an increased risk for incident MCI and MCI subtypes (amnestic MCI [A-MCI] and nonamnestic MCI [NA-MCI]). DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS A prospective population-based cohort from the Mayo Clinic Study on Aging. We included 1425 cognitively normal individuals aged 70 to 89 years who were randomly selected from Olmsted County, Minnesota, on October 1, 2004, using the medical records linkage system. At baseline and every 15 months thereafter, participants underwent assessment with a nurse interview, neurologic examination, and neuropsychological testing. A diagnosis of COPD was confirmed via medical record review. A baseline diagnosis of COPD and duration of COPD were examined as risk factors for MCI and MCI subtypes using Cox proportional hazards models and adjusting for demographic variables and medical comorbidities, with age as the time scale. EXPOSURE A baseline diagnosis of COPD and duration of COPD. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Incident MCI, A-MCI, and NA-MCI. RESULTS Of the 1425 participants with normal cognition at baseline, 370 developed incident MCI. The median duration of follow-up was 5.1 years (interquartile range, 3.8-5.4 years). A diagnosis of COPD significantly increased the risk for NA-MCI by 83% (hazard ratio, 1.83 [95% CI, 1.04-3.23]), but not of any MCI or A-MCI in multivariate analyses. We found a dose-response relationship such that individuals with COPD duration of longer than 5 years at baseline had the greatest risk for any MCI (hazard ratio, 1.58 [95% CI, 1.04-2.40]) and NA-MCI (2.58 [1.32-5.06]). CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE A diagnosis of COPD is associated with an increased risk for MCI, particularly NA-MCI. We have found a dose-response relationship between COPD duration and risk for MCI. These findings highlight the importance of COPD as a risk factor for MCI and may provide a substrate for early intervention to prevent or delay the onset and progression of MCI, particularly NA-MCI.
IMPORTANCE Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder primarily affecting the motor system, with extramotor involvement to a variable extent. Biomarkers for early differential diagnosis and prognosis are needed. An autosomal dominant hexanucleotide (GGGGCC) expansion in the noncoding region of the chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9orf72) gene is the most frequent genetic cause of ALS, but its metabolic pattern has not been studied systematically. OBJECTIVES To evaluate the use of 18fluorodeoxyglucose-positron-emission tomography as a marker of ALS pathology and investigate whether a specific metabolic signature is present in patients with C9orf72 mutations. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS In total, 81 patients with a suspected diagnosis of ALS at University Hospital Leuven were prospectively investigated. All underwent detailed neurological examination and electrodiagnostic and genetic testing for the major known genetic causes of ALS (C9orf72, SOD1, TARDBP, and FUS). A diagnosis of ALS was made in 70 of 81 patients. Of these, 11 were C9orf72 positive and 59 were C9orf72 negative. In 7 patients, the diagnosis of primary lateral sclerosis was made; 4 patients had progressive muscular atrophy. A screened healthy control population was used for comparison. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Positron-emission tomographic data were spatially normalized and analyzed using a predefined volume of interest and a voxel-based analysis (SPM8). Discriminant analysis was done both volume of interest based and voxel based using a support vector machine approach. RESULTS Compared with control participants, 18fluorodeoxyglucose-positron-emission tomography showed perirolandic and variable prefrontal hypometabolism in most patients. Patients with primary lateral sclerosis showed a similar pattern. Patients with C9orf72-positive ALS had discrete relative hypometabolism in the thalamus and posterior cingulate compared with those with C9orf72-negative ALS. A posteriori-corrected discriminant analysis was able to correctly classify 95% of ALS cases and 71% of primary lateral sclerosis cases. Prefrontal hypometabolism was associated with reduced clinical functioning (ALS Functional Rating Scale). Extensive hypometabolism in the prefrontal or anterior temporal areas was present in 10% of patients and associated with significantly shorter survival as an independent factor (n=63, P&amp;lt;.001). Patients who were C9orf72 positive did not differ in survival compared with those who were C9orf72 negative. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE 18Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron-emission tomography is a useful early diagnostic and prognostic marker for ALS. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that is positive for C9orf72 is characterized by only mild cerebral metabolic differences that show no prognostic difference.

IMPORTANCE Attenuated ventral striatal response during reward anticipation is a core feature of schizophrenia that is seen in prodromal, drug-naive, and chronic schizophrenic patients. Schizophrenia is highly heritable, raising the possibility that this phenotype is related to the genetic risk for the disorder. OBJECTIVE To examine a large sample of healthy first-degree relatives of schizophrenic patients and compare their neural responses to reward anticipation with those of carefully matched controls without a family psychiatric history. To further support the utility of this phenotype, we studied its test-retest reliability, its potential brain structural contributions, and the effects of a protective missense variant in neuregulin 1 (NRG1) linked to schizophrenia by meta-analysis (ie, rs10503929). DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Examination of a well-established monetary reward anticipation paradigm during functional magnetic resonance imaging at a university hospital; voxel-based morphometry; test-retest reliability analysis of striatal activations in an independent sample of 25 healthy participants scanned twice with the same task; and imaging genetics analysis of the control group. A total of 54 healthy first-degree relatives of schizophrenic patients and 80 controls matched for demographic, psychological, clinical, and task performance characteristics were studied. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Blood oxygen level-dependent response during reward anticipation, analysis of intraclass correlations of functional contrasts, and associations between striatal gray matter volume and NRG1 genotype. RESULTS Compared with controls, healthy first-degree relatives showed a highly significant decrease in ventral striatal activation during reward anticipation (familywise error-corrected P&amp;lt;.03 for multiple comparisons across the whole brain). Supplemental analyses confirmed that the identified systems-level functional phenotype is reliable (with intraclass correlation coefficients of 0.59-0.73), independent of local gray matter volume (with no corresponding group differences and no correlation to function, and with all uncorrected P values &amp;gt;.05), and affected by the NRG1 genotype (higher striatal responses in controls with the protective rs10503929 C allele; familywise error-corrected P&amp;lt;.03 for ventral striatal response). CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Healthy first-degree relatives of schizophrenic patients show altered striatal activation during reward anticipation in a directionality and localization consistent with prior patient findings. This provides evidence for a functional neural system mechanism related to familial risk. The phenotype can be assessed reliably, is independent of alterations in striatal structure, and is influenced by a schizophrenia candidate gene variant in NRG1. These data encourage us to further investigate the genetic and molecular contributions to this phenotype.

Tuberous sclerosis complex is an autosomal dominant neurocutaneous disorder affecting multiple organs. Tuberous sclerosis complex is caused by mutation in either one of the two disease-causing genes, TSC1 or TSC2, encoding for hamartin and tuberin, respectively. TSC2/PKD1 contiguous gene deletion syndrome is a very rare condition due to deletion involving both TSC2 and PKD1 genes. Tuberous sclerosis complex cannot be easily diagnosed since there is no pathognomonic feature, although there are consensus diagnostic criteria for that. Mutation analysis is useful and plays important roles. We report here two novel gross deletions of TSC2 gene in Malay patients with tuberous sclerosis complex and TSC2/PKD1 contiguous gene deletion syndrome, respectively.
Genetic research has shown that mutations that modify the protein-coding sequence of ATP1A3, the gene encoding the 3 subunit of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, cause both rapid-onset dystonia parkinsonism and alternating hemiplegia of childhood. These discoveries link two clinically distinct neurological diseases to the same gene, however, ATP1A3 mutations are, with one exception, disease-specific. Although the exact mechanism of how these mutations lead to disease is still unknown, much knowledge has been gained about functional consequences of ATP1A3 mutations using a range of in-vitro and animal model systems, and the role of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPases in the brain. Researchers and clinicians are attempting to further characterise neurological manifestations associated with mutations in ATP1A3, and to build on the existing molecular knowledge to understand how specific mutations can lead to different diseases.


The most common neuropsychiatric outcomes of stroke are depression, anxiety, fatigue, and apathy, which each occur in at least 30% of patients and have substantial overlap of prevalence and symptoms. Emotional lability, personality changes, psychosis, and mania are less common but equally distressing symptoms that are also challenging to manage. The cause of these syndromes is not known, and there is no clear relation to location of brain lesion. There are important gaps in knowledge about how to manage these disorders, even for depression, which is the most studied syndrome. Further research is needed to identify causes and interventions to prevent and treat these disorders.


(19)F magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) studies of 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) and 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose-6-phosphate (FDG-6P) can be used for directly assessing total glucose metabolism in vivo. To date, (19)F MRS measurements of FDG phosphorylation in the brain have either been achieved ex vivo from extracted tissue or in vivo by unusually long acquisition times. Electrophysiological and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measurements indicate that FDG doses up to 500 mg/kg can be tolerated with minimal side effects on cerebral physiology and evoked fMRI-BOLD responses to forepaw stimulation. In halothane-anesthetized rats, we report localized in vivo detection and separation of FDG and FDG-6P MRS signals with (19)F 2D chemical shift imaging (CSI) at 11.7 T. A metabolic model based on reversible transport between plasma and brain tissue, which included a non-saturable plasma to tissue component, was used to calculate spatial distribution of FDG and FDG-6P concentrations in rat brain. In addition, spatial distribution of rate constants and metabolic fluxes of FDG to FDG-6P conversion were estimated. Mapping the rate of FDG to FDG-6P conversion by (19)F CSI provides an MR methodology that could impact other in vivo applications such as characterization of tumor pathophysiology.
The effect of caffeine as a cognitive enhancer is well known; however, caffeine-induced changes in the cortical regions are still not very clear. Therefore, in this study, we conducted an investigation of the activation and deactivation with blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and of metabolic activity change with positron emission tomography (PET) in the human brain. Fourteen healthy subjects performed a visuomotor task inducing attention with 3T MRI, and PET imaging was also carried out in seven subjects to determine the cerebral glucose metabolic changes of caffeine at rest. The result by fMRI showed increased BOLD activation in the left cerebellum, putamen, insula, thalamus and the right primary motor cortex, and decreased BOLD deactivation in the posterior medial and the left posterior lateral cortex. Also, the resting state PET data showed reduced metabolic activity in the putamen, caudate nucleus, insula, pallidum and posterior medial cortex. The common cortical regions between fMRI and PET, such as putamen, insula and posterior medial cortex, where significant changes occurred after caffeine ingestion, are well known to play an important role in cognitive function like attention. This result suggests that the effect of caffeine as a cognitive enhancer is derived by modulating the attentional areas.


Vitamin D has multiple functions in the nervous system. Our objective was to systematically review and quantitatively synthesize evidence on the location and nature of brain morphometric changes linked to vitamin D depletion or repletion. A Medline search was conducted in February 2014, without limit of date and language restriction, using the MeSH terms &quot;Vitamin D&quot; OR &quot;Ergocalciferols&quot; combined with &quot;Brain Mapping&quot; OR &quot;Magnetic Resonance Imaging&quot; OR &quot;Tomography, X-ray Computed&quot; OR &quot;Tomography, Emission-Computed, Single-Photon&quot; OR &quot;Positron-Emission Tomography&quot; OR &quot;Nuclear Medicine&quot; OR &quot;Radionucleide Imaging&quot;. Of the 376 selected studies, nine observational studies - two animal and seven human studies - met the selection criteria. The number of participants ranged from 20 to 333 (40-79% female). Three studies were eligible for fixed-effects meta-analysis of bias-corrected effect size of the difference in lateral ventricle volume between cases with vitamin D depletion and controls. Results showed that vitamin D depletion was associated with lower brain volume, specifically larger lateral ventricles. The pooled effect size was 1.01 [95% CI: 0.62; 1.41], a 'large' effect size indicating that the ventricle volume was 1.01 SD higher with vitamin D depletion. Results on brain subvolumes were mixed, and indicated that brain atrophy with vitamin D depletion could be explained not by temporal lobe atrophy but rather by loss of matter at the cranial vertex, possibly in the precuneus cortex. In conclusion, despite increasing evidence arguing for an action of vitamin D in the brain, data is sparse regarding brain morphological changes related to vitamin D depletion. The retrieved association between vitamin D depletion and brain atrophy provides a scientific base for vitamin D replacement trials.
Integration of various brain signals can be used to determine cerebral autoregulation in neurocritical care patients to guide clinical management and to predict outcome. In this review, we will discuss current methodology of multimodal brain monitoring focusing on secondary 'reactivity indices' derived from various brain signals which are based on a 'moving correlation coefficient'. This algorithm was developed in order to analyze in a time dependent manner the degree of correlation between two factors within a time series where the number of paired observations is large. Of the various primary neuromonitoring sources which can be used to calculate reactivity indices, we will focus in this review on indices based on transcranial Doppler (TCD), intracranial pressure (ICP), brain tissue oxygenation (PbtO2) and near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Furthermore, we will demonstrate how reactivity indices can show transient changes of cerebral autoregulation and can be used to optimize management of arterial blood pressure (ABP) and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP).
We examined the time-varying characteristics of cerebral autoregulation and hemodynamics during a step hypercapnic stimulus by using recursively estimated multivariate (two-input) models which quantify the dynamic effects of mean arterial blood pressure (ABP) and end-tidal CO2 tension (PETCO2) on middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity (CBFV). Beat-to-beat values of ABP and CBFV, as well as breath-to-breath values of PETCO2 during baseline and sustained euoxic hypercapnia were obtained in 8 female subjects. The multiple-input, single-output models used were based on the Laguerre expansion technique, and their parameters were updated using recursive least squares with multiple forgetting factors. The results reveal the presence of nonstationarities that confirm previously reported effects of hypercapnia on autoregulation, i.e. a decrease in the MABP phase lead, and suggest that the incorporation of PETCO2 as an additional model input yields less time-varying estimates of dynamic pressure autoregulation obtained from single-input (ABP-CBFV) models.
Psychosomatic medicine, with its prevailing biopsychosocial model, aims to integrate human and exact sciences with their divergent conceptual models. Therefore, its own conceptual foundations, which often remain implicit and unknown, may be critically relevant. We defend the thesis that choosing between different metaphysical views on the 'mind-body problem' may have important implications for the conceptual foundations of psychosomatic medicine, and therefore potentially also for its methods, scientific status and relationship with the scientific disciplines it aims to integrate: biomedical sciences (including neuroscience), psychology and social sciences. To make this point, we introduce three key positions in the philosophical 'mind-body' debate (emergentism, reductionism, and supervenience physicalism) and investigate their consequences for the conceptual basis of the biopsychosocial model in general and its 'psycho-biological' part ('mental causation') in particular. Despite the clinical merits of the biopsychosocial model, we submit that it is conceptually underdeveloped or even flawed, which may hamper its use as a proper scientific model.

During the past decade there has been an increasing recognition of the incidence of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and a better understanding of the subtle neurological and cognitive deficits that may result from it. A substantial, albeit suboptimal, effort has been made to define diagnostic criteria for mTBI and improve diagnostic accuracy. Thus, biomarkers that can accurately and objectively detect brain injury after mTBI and, ideally, aid in clinical management are needed. In this review, we discuss the current research on serum biomarkers for mTBI including their rationale and diagnostic performances. Sensitive and specific biomarkers reflecting brain injury can provide important information regarding TBI pathophysiology and serve as candidate markers for predicting abnormal computed tomography findings and/or the development of residual deficits in patients who sustain an mTBI. We also outline the roles of biomarkers in settings of specific interest including pediatric TBI, sports concussions and military injuries, and provide perspectives on the validation of such markers for use in the clinic. Finally, emerging proteomics-based strategies for identifying novel markers will be discussed.



For the first time, an in-depth study has been made of the distribution of fibers and cell bodies containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the minipig brainstem using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique. The animals studied were not treated with colchicine. Cell bodies containing CGRP were found in 20 nuclei/regions of the brainstem. These perikarya were located in somatomotor, brachiomotor and raphae nuclei, nucleus ambiguus, substantia nigra, nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis, nucleus prepositus hypoglossi, nuclei olivaris inferior and superior, nuclei pontis, formatio reticularis, nucleus dorsalis tegmenti of Gudden, and in the nucleus reticularis lateralis. Fourteen of the 20 brainstem nuclei showed a high density of immunoreactive cell bodies. In comparison with other species, the minipig, together with the rat, show the most widespread distribution of cell bodies containing CGRP in the mammalian brainstem. Immunoreactive fibers were also observed in the brainstem. However, in the minipig brainstem the density of these fibers is low, as in many brainstem nuclei only single immunoreactive fibers were observed. A high density of immunoreactive fibers was only observed in the pars caudalis of the nucleus tractus spinalis nervi trigemini and in the nucleus ventralis tegmenti of Gudden. According to the observed anatomical distribution of the immunoreactive structures containing CGRP, the peptide could be involved in motor, somatosensory, gustative, and autonomic mechanisms.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein misfolding activates the unfolded protein response (UPR) to help cells cope with ER stress. If ER homeostasis is not restored, UPR promotes cell death. The mechanisms of UPR-mediated cell death are poorly understood. The PKR-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK) arm of the UPR is implicated in ER stress-induced cell death, in part through up-regulation of proapoptotic CCAAT/enhancer binding protein homologous protein (CHOP). Chop((-)/(-)) cells are partially resistant to ER stress-induced cell death, and CHOP overexpression alone does not induce cell death. These findings suggest that additional mechanisms regulate cell death downstream of PERK. Here we find dramatic suppression of antiapoptosis XIAP proteins in response to chronic ER stress. We find that PERK down-regulates XIAP synthesis through eIF2 and promotes XIAP degradation through ATF4. Of interest, PERK's down-regulation of XIAP occurs independently of CHOP activity. Loss of XIAP leads to increased cell death, whereas XIAP overexpression significantly enhances resistance to ER stress-induced cell death, even in the absence of CHOP. Our findings define a novel signaling circuit between PERK and XIAP that operates in parallel with PERK to CHOP induction to influence cell survival during ER stress. We propose a &quot;two-hit&quot; model of ER stress-induced cell death involving concomitant CHOP up-regulation and XIAP down-regulation both induced by PERK.
Like several Rho GDP/GTP exchange factors (GEFs), Kalirin7 (Kal7) contains an N-terminal Sec14 domain and multiple spectrin repeats. A natural splice variant of Kalrn lacking the Sec14 domain and four spectrin repeats is unable to increase spine formation; our goal was to understand the function of the Sec14 and spectrin repeat domains. Kal7 lacking its Sec14 domain still increased spine formation, but the spines were short. Strikingly, Kal7 truncation mutants containing only the Sec14 domain and several spectrin repeats increased spine formation. The Sec14 domain bound phosphoinositides, a minor but crucial component of cellular membranes, and binding was increased by a phosphomimetic mutation. Expression of KalSec14-GFP in nonneuronal cells impaired receptor-mediated endocytosis, linking Kal7 to membrane trafficking. Consistent with genetic studies placing Abl, a non-receptor tyrosine kinase, and the Drosophila orthologue of Kalrn into the same signaling pathway, Abl1 phosphorylated two sites in the fourth spectrin repeat of Kalirin, increasing its sensitivity to calpain-mediated degradation. Treating cortical neurons of the wild-type mouse, but not the Kal7(KO) mouse, with an Abl inhibitor caused an increase in linear spine density. Phosphorylation of multiple sites in the N-terminal Sec14/spectrin region of Kal7 may allow coordination of the many signaling pathways contributing to spine morphogenesis.
Mutations in the chloride channel gene CLCN1 cause the allelic disorders Thomsen (dominant) and Becker (recessive) myotonia congenita (MC). The encoded protein, ClC-1, is the primary channel that mediates chloride (Cl(-)) conductance in skeletal muscle. Mutations in CLCN1 lower the channel's threshold voltage, leading to spontaneous action potentials that are not coupled to neuromuscular transmission and resulting in myotonia. Over 120 mutations in CLCN1 have been described, 10% of which are splicing defects. Biological specimens suitable for RNA extraction are not always available, but obtaining genomic DNA for analysis is easy and non-invasive. This is the first study to evaluate the pathogenic potential of novel splicing mutations using the minigene approach, which is based on genomic DNA analysis. Splicing mutations accounted for 23% of all pathogenic variants in our cohort of MC patients. Four were heterozygous mutations in four unrelated individuals, belonging to this cohort: c.563G&gt;T in exon 5; c.1169-5T&gt;G in intron 10; c.1251+1G&gt;A in intron 11, and c.1931-2A&gt;G in intron 16. These variants were expressed in HEK 293 cells, and aberrant splicing was verified by in vitro transcription and sequencing of the cDNA. Our findings confirm the need to further investigate the nature of rearrangements associated with this class of mutations and their effects on mature transcripts. In particular, splicing mutations predicted to generate in-frame transcripts may generate out-of-frame mRNA transcripts that do not produce functional ClC-1. Clinically, incomplete molecular evaluation could lead to delayed or faulty diagnosis.
Adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (ADSCs) are a prominent cellular source for regenerative medicine. We tested whether transplantation of ADSCs into the ischemic muscular tissue of diabetic animals would attenuate impaired cell metabolism and microcirculatory function. We induced unilateral hind limb ischemia in male streptozotocin-treated rats and nondiabetic controls. One day after femoral artery ligation, six rats per group were intramuscularly injected allogeneic ADSCs (10(6)-10(7)-10(8) cells/mL); or conditioned media from ADSC cultures (CM); or saline; or allogeneic fibroblasts (10(7) cells/mL); or nonconditioned medium. Rats underwent magnetic resonance angiography; short time inversion recovery (STIR) edema-weighed imaging; proton MR spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS); immunoblotting and immunofluorescence on both hind limbs for 4 weeks. T1-weighted and STIR images showed tissue swelling and signal hyperintensity, respectively, in the ischemic tissue. The mean total ratio of creatine/water for the occluded limbs was significantly lower than for the nonoccluded limbs in both nondiabetic and diabetic rats. ADSC and CM groups had greater recovery of tCr/water in ischemic limbs in both diabetic and nondiabetic rats, with increased expression of -sarcomeric actinin, vascular endothelial growth factor and hepatocyte growth factor, as well as increased vessel density. ADSCs improve ischemic muscle metabolism and increase neovasculogenesis in diabetic rats.
Chemoprevention has been a pivotal and effective strategy during the skin cancer treatment. Using human skin normal and tumor samples, we demonstrated that both the expression and activity levels of pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) were higher in skin tumor tissues than normal tissues, suggesting that PKM2, one of important metabolic enzyme, might serve as a target for skin cancer prevention and/or therapy. Shikonin, a small-molecule active chemical, has been studied as an anti-cancer drug candidate in human cancer models. However, the mechanism of action and the chemopreventive potential of shikonin are unclear. Herein, we used the skin epidermal JB6 P+ cells and demonstrated that shikonin suppressed the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) induced neoplastic cell transformation and PKM2 activation in the early stage of carcinogenesis. Mitochondrial functions were inhibited by TPA treatment, as indicated by reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and mitochondrial respiration, which were restored by shikonin. We also examined the levels of lactate as a glycolysis marker, and shikonin suppressed its increase caused by tumor promoter treatment. Modulation of cell metabolism by shikonin was associated with G2-M phase accumulation, and Fra-1 (a major subunit of activator protein 1 in skin tumorigenesis) downregulation. In addition, we demonstrated that AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), an energy sensor, which is inactivated by TPA, shikonin could reverse AMPK activity. These results suggest that shikonin bears chemopreventive potential for human skin cancers in which PKM2 is upregulated, which might be mediated by inhibiting oncogenic activation, PKM2 activation, and mitochondrial dysfunction.

Mutations in PROP1 account for up to half of the cases of combined pituitary hormone deficiency that result from known causes. Despite this, few signaling molecules and pathways that influence PROP1 expression have been identified. Notch signaling has been linked to Prop1 expression, but the developmental periods during which Notch signaling influences Prop1 and overall pituitary development remain unclear. To test the requirement for Notch signaling in establishing the normal pituitary hormone milieu, we generated mice with early embryonic conditional loss of Notch2 (conditional knockout) and examined the consequences of chemical Notch inhibition during early postnatal pituitary maturation. We show that loss of Notch2 has little influence on early embryonic pituitary proliferation but is crucial for postnatal progenitor maintenance and proliferation. In addition, we show that Notch signaling is necessary embryonically and postnatally for Prop1 expression and robust Pit1 lineage hormone cell expansion, as well as repression of the corticotrope lineage. Taken together, our studies identify temporal and cell type-specific roles for Notch signaling and highlight the importance of this pathway throughout pituitary development.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are pentameric ligand-gated cation channels well characterized in neuronal signal transmission. Moreover, recent studies have revealed nAChR expression in nonneuronal cell types throughout the body, including tissues involved in metabolism. In the present study, we screen gene expression of nAChR subunits in pancreatic islets and adipose tissues. Mice pancreatic islets present predominant expression of 7 and 2 nAChR subunits but at a lower level than in central structures. Characterization of glucose and energy homeostasis in 72nAChR(-/-) mice revealed no major defect in insulin secretion and sensitivity but decreased glycemia apparently unrelated to gluconeogenesis or glycogenolysis. 72nAChR(-/-) mice presented an increase in lean and bone body mass and a decrease in fat storage with normal body weight. These observations were associated with elevated spontaneous physical activity in 72nAChR(-/-) mice, mainly due to elevation in fine vertical (rearing) activity while their horizontal (ambulatory) activity remained unchanged. In contrast to 7nAChR(-/-) mice presenting glucose intolerance and insulin resistance associated to excessive inflammation of adipose tissue, the present metabolic phenotyping of 72nAChR(-/-) mice revealed a metabolic improvement possibly linked to the increase in spontaneous physical activity related to central 2nAChR deficiency.

Multiple genome-wide association studies have linked diacylglycerol kinase  (DGK) to bipolar disorder (BPD). Moreover, DGK expression is increased in tissue from patients with BPD. How increased levels of this lipid kinase might affect cellular functions is currently unclear. Here, we overexpressed mouse DGK in human embryonic kidney 293 cells to examine substrate specificity and signaling downstream of endogenous G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). We found that DGK can phosphorylate diacylglycerol (DAG) with different acyl side chains (8:0, 12:0, 18:1). In addition, overexpression of DGK enhanced calcium mobilization after stimulating muscarinic receptors with carbachol and after stimulating purinergic receptors with ATP. This effect required DGK catalytic activity, as assessed using a kinase-dead (G389D) mutant and multiple truncation constructs. DGK was localized throughout the cytosol and did not translocate to the plasma membrane after stimulation with carbachol. Since protein kinase C (PKC) can be activated by DAG and promotes receptor desensitization, we also examined functional interactions between PKC and DGK. We found that acute activation of PKC with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate shortened carbachol-evoked calcium responses and occluded the effect of overexpressed DGK. Moreover, inhibition of PKC activity with bisindolylmaleimide I (BIM I) produced the same enhancing effect on carbachol-evoked calcium mobilization as overexpressed DGK, and overexpression of DGK produced no additional effect on calcium mobilization in the presence of BIM I. Taken together, our data suggest that DGK enhances GPCR signaling by reducing PKC activation.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic disturbances are hallmark features of schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders and encompass multiple interneuronal cell types. Using bacterial artificial chromosome-driven, miRNA silencing technology we generated transgenic mouse lines that suppress glutamic acid decarboxylase 1 (GAD1) in either cholecystokinin (CCK)- or neuropeptide Y (NPY)-expressing interneurons. In situ lipidomic and proteomic analyses on brain tissue sections revealed distinct, brain region-specific profiles in each transgenic line. Behavioral analyses revealed that suppression of GAD1 in CCK+ interneurons resulted in locomotor and olfactory sensory changes, whereas suppression in NPY+ interneurons affected anxiety-related behaviors and social interaction. Both transgenic mouse lines had altered sensitivity to amphetamine albeit in opposite directions. Together, these data argue that reduced GAD1 expression leads to altered molecular and behavioral profiles in a cell type-dependent manner, and that these subpopulations of interneurons are strong and opposing modulators of dopamine system function. Furthermore, our findings also support the hypothesis that neuronal networks are differentially controlled by diverse inhibitory subnetworks.
Converging evidence suggests that females and males show different responses to stress; however, little is known about the mechanism underlying the sexually dimorphic effects of stress. In this study, we found that young female rats exposed to 1 week of repeated restraint stress show no negative effects on temporal order recognition memory (TORM), a cognitive process controlled by the prefrontal cortex (PFC), which was contrary to the impairment in TORM observed in stressed males. Concomitantly, normal glutamatergic transmission and glutamate receptor surface expression in PFC pyramidal neurons were found in repeatedly stressed females, in contrast to the significant reduction seen in stressed males. The detrimental effects of repeated stress on TORM and glutamate receptors were unmasked in stressed females when estrogen receptors were inhibited or knocked down in PFC, and were prevented in stressed males with the administration of estradiol. Blocking aromatase, the enzyme for the biosynthesis of estrogen, revealed the stress-induced glutamatergic deficits and memory impairment in females, and the level of aromatase was significantly higher in the PFC of females than in males. These results suggest that estrogen protects against the detrimental effects of repeated stress on glutamatergic transmission and PFC-dependent cognition, which may underlie the stress resilience of females.

Associations between brain cortical tissue volume and cognitive function in old age are frequently interpreted as suggesting that preservation of cortical tissue is the foundation of successful cognitive aging. However, this association could also, in part, reflect a lifelong association between cognitive ability and cortical tissue. We analyzed data on 588 subjects from the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936 who had intelligence quotient (IQ) scores from the same cognitive test available at both 11 and 70 years of age as well as high-resolution brain magnetic resonance imaging data obtained at approximately 73 years of age. Cortical thickness was estimated at 81924 sampling points across the cortex for each subject using an automated pipeline. Multiple regression was used to assess associations between cortical thickness and the IQ measures at 11 and 70 years. Childhood IQ accounted for more than two-third of the association between IQ at 70 years and cortical thickness measured at age 73 years. This warns against ascribing a causal interpretation to the association between cognitive ability and cortical tissue in old age based on assumptions about, and exclusive reference to, the aging process and any associated disease. Without early-life measures of cognitive ability, it would have been tempting to conclude that preservation of cortical thickness in old age is a foundation for successful cognitive aging when, instead, it is a lifelong association. This being said, results should not be construed as meaning that all studies on aging require direct measures of childhood IQ, but as suggesting that proxy measures of prior cognitive function can be useful to take into consideration.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the subgenual cingulated gyrus (SCG) is a promising new technique that may provide sustained remission in resistant major depressive disorder (MDD). Initial studies reported a significant early improvement in patients, followed by a decline within the first month of treatment, an unexpected phenomenon attributed to potential placebo effects or a physiological response to probe insertion that remains poorly understood. Here we characterized the behavioural antidepressant-like effect of DBS in the rat medial prefrontal cortex, focusing on modifications to rodent SCG correlate (prelimbic and infralimbic (IL) cortex). In addition, we evaluated the early outcome of DBS in the SCG of eight patients with resistant MDD involved in a clinical trial. We found similar antidepressant-like effects in rats implanted with electrodes, irrespective of whether they received electrical brain stimulation or not. This effect was due to regional inflammation, as it was temporally correlated with an increase of glial-fibrillary-acidic-protein immunoreactivity, and it was blocked by anti-inflammatory drugs. Indeed, inflammatory mediators and neuronal p11 expression also changed. Furthermore, a retrospective study indicated that the early response of MDD patients subjected to DBS was poorer when they received anti-inflammatory drugs. Our study demonstrates that electrode implantation up to the IL cortex is sufficient to produce an antidepressant-like effect of a similar magnitude to that observed in rats receiving brain stimulation. Moreover, both preclinical and clinical findings suggest that the use of anti-inflammatory drugs after electrode implantation may attenuate the early anti-depressive response in patients who are subjected to DBS.
Neuronal firing is a fundamental element of cerebral function; and, voltage-gated potassium (K(+)) channels regulate that firing through the repolarization of action potentials. Kv3-type channels (Kv3.1-Kv3.4) represent a family of voltage-gated K(+) channels that have fast-spiking properties. Kv3.1 channel subunits are predominantly localized to cortical parvalbumin (PV)-positive, inhibitory interneurons. The firing properties of these interneurons participate in establishing the normal gamma oscillations and synchrony of cortical neuronal populations, thought to be the signature of higher information processing in human brain. Schizophrenia (SZ) is associated with abnormalities in cortical gamma synchrony and in information processing, particularly with dysfunction in working memory and executive function. Here, we report the distribution of Kv3.1b and Kv3.2 protein in normal human brain, showing that Kv3.1b is limited to neocortical areas, whereas Kv3.2 is abundantly represented in neo- and subcortical regions. In SZ cases, levels of Kv3.1b protein are decreased in the neocortex, but only in cases without antipsychotic drug (APD) treatment; Kv3.1 levels are normal in antipsychotic-treated cases. Kv3.2 is not different in distribution or in level between normal and SZ cases, nor influenced by APD, in any region tested. The apparent increase in Kv3.1b protein levels by APDs in SZ neocortex was confirmed in laboratory rodents treated with chronic APDs. These findings show a decrease in Kv3.1b channel protein in SZ neocortex, a deficit that is restored by APDs. This alteration could be fundamentally involved in the cortical manifestations of SZ and in the therapeutic response to APDs.

Amantadine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist, is currently the only pharmacological treatment for levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD), but causes adverse effects on the central nervous system at therapeutic doses. Fenobam, a negative modulator of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5, has recently been reported to attenuate LID in MPTP-treated macaques. The aim of the current study was to investigate the treatment interactions of fenobam and amantadine on LID in the MPTP-treated macaque model of PD. The antidyskinetic and -parkinsonian effects were measured after administration of fenobam (10-30 mg/kg) and amantadine (10-30 mg/kg) alone and in combination. Fenobam (30 mg/kg) and amantadine (30 mg/kg) alone reduced LID, whereas lower doses of either drug did not cause any significant effects. A combined treatment of fenobam and amantadine at subthreshold doses (10 and 20 mg/kg) significantly reduced LID without worsening PD disability. These data suggest that a low-dose combination of fenobam and amantadine can be used for alleviating dyskinesia without causing adverse motor effects. Such combined therapies may offer a new therapeutic strategy for treatment of LID in PD patients.  2014 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

Spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) is an autosomal-dominant degenerative disorder that is neuropathologically characterized primarily by infratentorial damage, although less severe supratentorial involvement may contribute to the clinical manifestation. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) studies of SCA2 have enabled in vivo quantification of neurodegeneration in infratentorial regions, whereas supratentorial regions have been explored less thoroughly. We measured microstructural changes in both infratentorial and supratentorial regions in 13 SCA2 patients (9 men, 4 women; mean age, 5012 years) and 15 controls (10 men, 5 women; mean age, 4914 years) using DWI-MRI and correlated the DWI changes with disease severity and duration. Disease severity was evaluated using the International Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale and the Inherited Ataxia Clinical Rating Scale. Cerebral diffusion trace ( D) values were generated, and regions of interest (ROIs) and voxel-based analysis with Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) were used for data analysis. In SCA2 patients, ROI analysis and SPM confirmed significant increases in D values in the pons, cerebellar white matter (CWM) and middle cerebellar peduncles. Moreover, SPM analysis revealed increased D values in the right thalamus, bilateral temporal cortex/white matter, and motor cortex/pyramidal tract regions. Increased diffusivity in the frontal white matter (FWM) and the CWM was significantly correlated with ataxia severity. DWI-MRI revealed that both infratentorial and supratentorial microstructural changes may characterize SCA2 patients in the course of the disease and might contribute to the severity of the symptoms.  2013 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
An inverse relationship between Parkinson's disease (PD) and cancer has been described. However, the association between cancers and genetic forms of PD, in particular the R1441G mutation in the LRRK2 gene, is not well known. The objective of this work was to analyze cancer prevalence in PD patients with R1441G or G2019S mutations in LRRK2, and in idiopathic PD (iPD). A total of 732 patients with PD (70 and 25 carriers of R1441G or G2019S mutations, respectively), and 177 controls, were linked using a population-based cancer registry of the Spanish province of Gipuzkoa. Cancer prevalence was not significantly higher in PD-G2019S carriers (20%) than in PD-R1441G carriers (14.3%), iPD (13.8%), or controls (12.5%). With the exception of a high prevalence of hematological cancers (crude odds ratio of 7.1) in the R1441G group, specific cancer types were not increased in PD mutation carriers. In both the carrier and iPD groups, cancers were diagnosed after the onset of PD. PD patients had a similar prevalence of cancer to control subjects. There was no increased association between G2019S or R1441G mutations and any type of cancer. Although there was a higher prevalence of hematological cancers in the R1441G group, the low number of such cancers overall makes this finding of uncertain significance. There was a slightly higher but not statistically significant prevalence of non-skin cancers in the G2019S group, suggesting that further study to evaluate the association should be undertaken prior to ascribing an increased cancer risk to this population.  2013 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
The presence of mirror dystonia (dystonic movement induced by a specific task performed by the unaffected hand) in the dominant hand of writer's cramp patients when the nondominant hand is moved suggests an abnormal interaction between the 2 hemispheres. In this study we compare the level of interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) in 2 groups of patients with writer's cramp, one with the presence of a mirror dystonia and the other without as well as a control group. The level of bidirectional IHI was measured in wrist muscles with dual-site transcranial magnetic stimulation with a 10-millisecond (short IHI) and a 40-millisecond (long IHI) interstimulus interval during rest and while holding a pen in 9 patients with mirror dystonia 7 without mirror dystonia, and 13 controls. The group of patients without mirror dystonia did not differ from the controls in their IHI level. In contrast, IHI was significantly decreased in the group of patients with mirror dystonia in comparison with the group without mirror dystonia and the controls in both wrist muscles of both the dystonic and unaffected hand whatever the resting or active condition (P=0.001). The decrease of IHI level in the group of patients with mirror dystonia was negatively correlated with the severity and the duration of the disease: the weaker the level of IHI, the more severe was the disease and the longer its duration. Interhemispheric inhibition disturbances are most likely involved in the occurrence of mirror dystonia. This bilateral deficient inhibition further suggests the involvement of the unaffected hemisphere in the pathophysiology of unilateral dystonia.  2013 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Late Epstein-Barr virus infection and hypovitaminosis-D as environmental risk factors in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis are gaining great interest. We, therefore, tested for in-vivo interdependence between Epstein-Barr-virus (EBV)-status and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25(OH)D3) -level in healthy young individuals from a United Kingdom (UK) autumn cohort. EBV-load was measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and 25(OH)D3 levels by isotope-dilution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. This young, healthy UK autumn cohort showed surprisingly low levels of 25(OH)D3 (mean value: 40.5 nmol/L  5.02). Furthermore, we found that low 25(OH)D3 levels did not impact on EBV load and anti-EBV nuclear antigen-1 (EBNA-1) titers. However, we observed a correlation between EBV load and EBNA-1 titers. These observations should be of value in the study of the potential relationship between hypovitaminosis-D and EBV-status in the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis.
The multiple sclerosis (MS) risk factors smoking and remote Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection have been suggested to interact statistically, but the results are conflicting. In a prospective study on 192 MS cases and 384 matched controls, we analysed levels of cotinine as a marker of smoke exposure, and Epstein-Barr Nuclear Antigen-1 antibody reactivity. We assessed interaction on the additive and multiplicative scales, and estimated the effects of the risk factors across strata of each other. The results suggest that a negative interaction may be present in samples drawn at a young age, and a positive interaction among older subjects.







The tumour vascular microenvironment supports tumorigenesis not only by supplying oxygen and diffusible nutrients but also by secreting soluble factors that promote tumorigenesis. Here we identify a feedforward mechanism in which endothelial cells (ECs), in response to tumour-derived mediators, release angiocrines driving aberrant vascularization and glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) progression through a hypoxia-independent induction of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1. Phosphorylation of profilin-1 (Pfn-1) at Tyr129 in ECs induces binding to the tumour suppressor protein von Hippel-Lindau (VHL), and prevents VHL-mediated degradation of prolyl-hydroxylated HIF-1, culminating in HIF-1 accumulation even in normoxia. Elevated HIF-1 induces expression of multiple angiogenic factors, leading to vascular abnormality and tumour progression. In a genetic model of GBM, mice with an EC-specific defect in Pfn-1 phosphorylation exhibit reduced tumour angiogenesis, normalized vasculature and improved survival. Moreover, EC-specific Pfn-1 phosphorylation is associated with tumour aggressiveness in human glioma. These findings suggest that targeting Pfn-1 phosphorylation may offer a selective strategy for therapeutic intervention of malignant solid tumours.
Development of the nervous system requires extensive axonal and dendritic growth during which neurons massively increase their surface area. Here we report that the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident SNARE Sec22b has a conserved non-fusogenic function in plasma membrane expansion. Sec22b is closely apposed to the plasma membrane SNARE syntaxin1. Sec22b forms a trans-SNARE complex with syntaxin1 that does not include SNAP23/25/29, and does not mediate fusion. Insertion of a long rigid linker between the SNARE and transmembrane domains of Sec22b extends the distance between the ER and plasma membrane, and impairs neurite growth but not the secretion of VSV-G. In yeast, Sec22 interacts with lipid transfer proteins, and inhibition of Sec22 leads to defects in lipid metabolism at contact sites between the ER and plasma membrane. These results suggest that close apposition of the ER and plasma membrane mediated by Sec22 and plasma membrane syntaxins generates a non-fusogenic SNARE bridge contributing to plasma membrane expansion, probably through non-vesicular lipid transfer.
The plasma membrane contributes to the formation of autophagosomes, the double-membrane vesicles that sequester cytosolic cargo and deliver it to lysosomes for degradation during autophagy. In this study, we have identified a regulatory role for connexins (Cx), the main components of plasma membrane gap junctions, in autophagosome formation. We have found that plasma-membrane-localized Cx proteins constitutively downregulate autophagy through a direct interaction with several autophagy-related proteins involved in the initial steps of autophagosome formation, such as Atg16 and components of the PI(3)K autophagy initiation complex (Vps34, Beclin-1 and Vps15). On nutrient starvation, this inhibitory effect is released by the arrival of Atg14 to the Cx-Atg complex. This promotes the internalization of Cx-Atg along with Atg9, which is also recruited to the plasma membrane in response to starvation. Maturation of the Cx-containing pre-autophagosomes into autophagosomes leads to degradation of these endogenous inhibitors, allowing for sustained activation of autophagy.
The type I interferon system is integral to human antiviral immunity. However, inappropriate stimulation or defective negative regulation of this system can lead to inflammatory disease. We sought to determine the molecular basis of genetically uncharacterized cases of the type I interferonopathy Aicardi-Goutires syndrome and of other undefined neurological and immunological phenotypes also demonstrating an upregulated type I interferon response. We found that heterozygous mutations in the cytosolic double-stranded RNA receptor gene IFIH1 (also called MDA5) cause a spectrum of neuroimmunological features consistently associated with an enhanced interferon state. Cellular and biochemical assays indicate that these mutations confer gain of function such that mutant IFIH1 binds RNA more avidly, leading to increased baseline and ligand-induced interferon signaling. Our results demonstrate that aberrant sensing of nucleic acids can cause immune upregulation.
Topoisomerase II (TOP2) removes torsional stress from DNA and facilitates gene transcription by introducing transient DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). Such DSBs are normally rejoined by TOP2 but on occasion can become abortive and remain unsealed. Here we identify homozygous mutations in the TDP2 gene encoding tyrosyl DNA phosphodiesterase-2, an enzyme that repairs 'abortive' TOP2-induced DSBs, in individuals with intellectual disability, seizures and ataxia. We show that cells from affected individuals are hypersensitive to TOP2-induced DSBs and that loss of TDP2 inhibits TOP2-dependent gene transcription in cultured human cells and in mouse post-mitotic neurons following abortive TOP2 activity. Notably, TDP2 is also required for normal levels of many gene transcripts in developing mouse brain, including numerous gene transcripts associated with neurological function and/or disease, and for normal interneuron density in mouse cerebellum. Collectively, these data implicate chromosome breakage by TOP2 as an endogenous threat to gene transcription and to normal neuronal development and maintenance.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG repeat expansion leading to an elongated polyglutamine stretch in huntingtin. Mutant huntingtin (mHTT) is ubiquitously expressed in all cells but elicits selective cortical and striatal neurodegeneration in HD. The mechanistic basis for such selective neuronal vulnerability remains unclear. A necessary step toward resolving this enigma is to define the cell types in which mHTT expression is causally linked to the disease pathogenesis. Using a conditional transgenic mouse model of HD, in which the mice express full-length human mHTT from a bacterial artificial chromosome transgene (BACHD), we genetically reduced mHTT expression in neuronal populations in the striatum, cortex or both. We show that reduction of cortical mHTT expression in BACHD mice partially improves motor and psychiatric-like behavioral deficits but does not improve neurodegeneration, whereas reduction of mHTT expression in both neuronal populations consistently ameliorates all behavioral deficits and selective brain atrophy in this HD model. Furthermore, whereas reduction of mHTT expression in cortical or striatal neurons partially ameliorates corticostriatal synaptic deficits, further restoration of striatal synaptic function can be achieved by reduction of mHTT expression in both neuronal cell types. Our study demonstrates distinct but interacting roles of cortical and striatal mHTT in HD pathogenesis and suggests that optimal HD therapeutics may require targeting mHTT in both cortical and striatal neurons.
When rodents engage in the exploration of novel stimuli, breathing occurs at an accelerated rate that is synchronous with whisking. We review the recently observed relationships between breathing and the sensations of smell and vibrissa-based touch. We consider the hypothesis that the breathing rhythm serves not only as a motor drive signal, but also as a common clock that binds these two senses into a common percept. This possibility may be extended to include taste through the coordination of licking with breathing. Here we evaluate the status of experimental evidence that pertains to this hypothesis.
Experimental studies of Alzheimer's disease have largely depended on transgenic mice overexpressing amyloid precursor protein (APP). These mice, however, suffer from artificial phenotypes because, in addition to amyloid  peptide (A), they overproduce other APP fragments. We generated knock-in mice that harbor Swedish and Beyreuther/Iberian mutations with and without the Arctic mutation in the APP gene. The mice showed typical A pathology, neuroinflammation and memory impairment in an age-dependent manner.
Small non-coding RNAs (sncRNAs) are potential vectors at the interface between genes and environment. We found that traumatic stress in early life altered mouse microRNA (miRNA) expression, and behavioral and metabolic responses in the progeny. Injection of sperm RNAs from traumatized males into fertilized wild-type oocytes reproduced the behavioral and metabolic alterations in the resulting offspring.
The hippocampus is thought to have a critical role in episodic memory by incorporating the sensory input of an experience onto a spatial framework embodied by place cells. Although the formation and stability of place fields requires exploration, the interaction between discrete exploratory behaviors and the specific, immediate and persistent modifications of neural representations required by episodic memory has not been established. We recorded place cells in rats and found that increased neural activity during exploratory head-scanning behaviors predicted the formation and potentiation of place fields on the next pass through that location, regardless of environmental familiarity and across multiple testing days. These results strongly suggest that, during the attentive behaviors that punctuate exploration, place cell activity mediates the one-trial encoding of ongoing experiences necessary for episodic memory.
Visual input often arrives in a noisy and discontinuous stream, owing to head and eye movements, occlusion, lighting changes, and many other factors. Yet the physical world is generally stable; objects and physical characteristics rarely change spontaneously. How then does the human visual system capitalize on continuity in the physical environment over time? We found that visual perception in humans is serially dependent, using both prior and present input to inform perception at the present moment. Using an orientation judgment task, we found that, even when visual input changed randomly over time, perceived orientation was strongly and systematically biased toward recently seen stimuli. Furthermore, the strength of this bias was modulated by attention and tuned to the spatial and temporal proximity of successive stimuli. These results reveal a serial dependence in perception characterized by a spatiotemporally tuned, orientation-selective operator-which we call a continuity field-that may promote visual stability over time.
The confluence of new approaches in recording patterns of brain connectivity and quantitative analytic tools from network science has opened new avenues toward understanding the organization and function of brain networks. Descriptive network models of brain structural and functional connectivity have made several important contributions; for example, in the mapping of putative network hubs and network communities. Building on the importance of anatomical and functional interactions, network models have provided insight into the basic structures and mechanisms that enable integrative neural processes. Network models have also been instrumental in understanding the role of structural brain networks in generating spatially and temporally organized brain activity. Despite these contributions, network models are subject to limitations in methodology and interpretation, and they face many challenges as brain connectivity data sets continue to increase in detail and complexity.
MATR3 is an RNA- and DNA-binding protein that interacts with TDP-43, a disease protein linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia. Using exome sequencing, we identified mutations in MATR3 in ALS kindreds. We also observed MATR3 pathology in ALS-affected spinal cords with and without MATR3 mutations. Our data provide more evidence supporting the role of aberrant RNA processing in motor neuron degeneration.
Dendritic spines have been proposed to transform synaptic signals through chemical and electrical compartmentalization. However, the quantitative contribution of spine morphology to synapse compartmentalization and its dynamic regulation are still poorly understood. We used time-lapse super-resolution stimulated emission depletion (STED) imaging in combination with fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) measurements, two-photon glutamate uncaging, electrophysiology and simulations to investigate the dynamic link between nanoscale anatomy and compartmentalization in live spines of CA1 neurons in mouse brain slices. We report a diversity of spine morphologies that argues against common categorization schemes and establish a close link between compartmentalization and spine morphology, wherein spine neck width is the most critical morphological parameter. We demonstrate that spine necks are plastic structures that become wider and shorter after long-term potentiation. These morphological changes are predicted to lead to a substantial drop in spine head excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) while preserving overall biochemical compartmentalization.
The Ca(2+) sensor for rapid synaptic vesicle exocytosis, synaptotagmin 1 (syt), is largely composed of two Ca(2+)-sensing C2 domains, C2A and C2B. We investigated the apparent synergy between the tandem C2 domains by altering the length and rigidity of the linker that connects them. The behavior of the linker mutants revealed a correlation between the ability of the C2 domains to penetrate membranes in response to Ca(2+) and to drive evoked neurotransmitter release in cultured mouse neurons, uncovering a step in excitation-secretion coupling. Using atomic force microscopy, we found that the synergy between these C2 domains involved intra-molecular interactions between them. Thus, syt function is markedly affected by changes in the physical nature of the linker that connects its tandem C2 domains. Moreover, the linker mutations uncoupled syt-mediated regulation of evoked and spontaneous release, revealing that syt also acts as a fusion clamp before the Ca(2+) trigger.
The myelin sheath is essential for the rapid and efficient propagation of action potentials. However, our understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms that regulate myelination, demyelination and remyelination is limited. Schwann cells produce myelin in the peripheral nervous system and remain associated with the axons of peripheral neurons throughout axonal migration to the target. Owing to the intimate relationship between these cell types it is difficult to fully reproduce their function in vitro. For this reason, we developed an approach based on the injection of an engineered virus into the sciatic nerve of mice to locally transduce peripheral nerve cells. This approach can be used as an alternative to germline transgenesis to facilitate the investigation of peripheral nerve biology in vivo. The detailed protocol, described here, requires 3 weeks to complete. In comparison with genetic modification strategies, this protocol is a fast, reproducible and straightforward method for introducing exogenous factors into myelinating Schwann cells and myelinated axons in vivo to investigate specific molecular mechanisms.
The link between chronic psychosocial and metabolic stress and the pathogenesis of disease has been extensively documented. Nevertheless, the cellular mechanisms by which stressful life experiences and their associated primary neuroendocrine mediators cause biological damage and increase disease risk remain poorly understood. The allostatic load model of chronic stress focuses on glucocorticoid dysregulation. In this Perspectives, we expand upon the metabolic aspects of this model-particularly glucose imbalance-and propose that mitochondrial dysfunction constitutes an early, modifiable target of chronic stress and stress-related health behaviours. Central to this process is mitochondrial regulation of energy metabolism and cellular signalling. Chronically elevated glucose levels damage both mitochondria and mitochondrial DNA, generating toxic products that can promote systemic inflammation, alter gene expression and hasten cell ageing. Consequently, the concept of 'mitochondrial allostatic load' defines the deleterious structural and functional changes that mitochondria undergo in response to elevated glucose levels and stress-related pathophysiology.
Astrocyte Ca(2+) signalling has been proposed to link neuronal information in different spatial-temporal dimensions to achieve a higher level of brain integration. However, some discrepancies in the results of recent studies challenge this view and highlight key insufficiencies in our current understanding. In parallel, new experimental approaches that enable the study of astrocyte physiology at higher spatial-temporal resolution in intact brain preparations are beginning to reveal an unexpected level of compartmentalization and sophistication in astrocytic Ca(2+) dynamics. This newly revealed complexity needs to be attentively considered in order to understand how astrocytes may contribute to brain information processing.
The loss of a limb or paralysis resulting from spinal cord injury has devastating consequences on quality of life. One approach to restoring lost sensory and motor abilities in amputees and patients with tetraplegia is to supply them with implants that provide a direct interface with the CNS. Such brain-machine interfaces might enable a patient to exert voluntary control over a prosthetic or robotic limb or over the electrically induced contractions of paralysed muscles. A parallel interface could convey sensory information about the consequences of these movements back to the patient. Recent developments in the algorithms that decode motor intention from neuronal activity and in approaches to convey sensory feedback by electrically stimulating neurons, using biomimetic and adaptation-based approaches, have shown the promise of invasive interfaces with sensorimotor cortices, although substantial challenges remain.
The precision of skilled movement depends on sensory feedback and its refinement by local inhibitory microcircuits. One specialized set of spinal GABAergic interneurons forms axo-axonic contacts with the central terminals of sensory afferents, exerting presynaptic inhibitory control over sensory-motor transmission. The inability to achieve selective access to the GABAergic neurons responsible for this unorthodox inhibitory mechanism has left unresolved the contribution of presynaptic inhibition to motor behaviour. We used Gad2 as a genetic entry point to manipulate the interneurons that contact sensory terminals, and show that activation of these interneurons in mice elicits the defining physiological characteristics of presynaptic inhibition. Selective genetic ablation of Gad2-expressing interneurons severely perturbs goal-directed reaching movements, uncovering a pronounced and stereotypic forelimb motor oscillation, the core features of which are captured by modelling the consequences of sensory feedback at high gain. Our findings define the neural substrate of a genetically hardwired gain control system crucial for the smooth execution of movement.


Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant disease associated with a mutation in the gene encoding huntingtin (Htt) leading to expanded polyglutamine repeats of mutant Htt (mHtt) that elicit oxidative stress, neurotoxicity, and motor and behavioural changes. Huntington's disease is characterized by highly selective and profound damage to the corpus striatum, which regulates motor function. Striatal selectivity of Huntington's disease may reflect the striatally selective small Gprotein Rhes binding to mHtt and enhancing its neurotoxicity. Specific molecular mechanisms by which mHtt elicits neurodegeneration have been hard to determine. Here we show a major depletion of cystathionine -lyase (CSE), the biosynthetic enzyme for cysteine, in Huntington's disease tissues, which may mediate Huntington's disease pathophysiology. The defect occurs at the transcriptional level and seems to reflect influences of mHtt on specificity protein 1, a transcriptional activator for CSE. Consistent with the notion of loss of CSE as a pathogenic mechanism, supplementation with cysteine reverses abnormalities in cultures of Huntington's disease tissues and in intact mouse models of Huntington's disease, suggesting therapeutic potential.






The hexanucleotide repeat expansion (GGGGCC) in chromosome 9 open-reading frame 72 (C9orf72) and mutations in the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) and progranulin (GRN) genes are known to be associated with the main causes of familial or sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) in Western populations. These genetic abnormalities have rarely been studied in Asian FTD populations. We investigated the frequencies of mutations in MAPT and GRN and the C9orf72 abnormal expansion in 75 Korean FTD patients. Two novel missense variants of unknown significance in the MAPT and GRN were detected in each gene. However, neither abnormal C9orf72 expansion nor pathogenic MAPT or GRN mutation was found. Our findings indicate that MAPT, GRN, and C9orf72 mutations are rare causes of FTD in Korean patients.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an incurable paralytic disorder primarily typified by the selective and progressive degeneration of motoneurons in the brain and spinal cord. ALS causes muscle wasting and atrophy, resulting eventually in respiratory failure and death within 3-5 years of diagnosis. Vitamin D is a potent secosteroid hormone with diverse biological functions that include protection against neuronal damage. The detrimental consequences of vitamin D dietary deficiency have been documented in other neurodegenerative diseases. However, the protective effect of vitamin D on motoneuron and the influence of its levels on disease course remains elusive. Here we found that the biologically active form of vitamin D significantly potentiated the effect of neurotrophic factors and prevented motoneurons from a Fas-induced death, while electrophysiological properties of motoneurons were not affected. In ALS patients, we report that a severe vitamin D deficiency accelerates by 4 times the rate of decline and were associated with a marked shorter life expectancy. Our findings support a neuroprotective function of vitamin D on motoneurons and propose vitamin D as a reliable prognostic factor of ALS.
Inflammatory mechanisms are activated in aging and late-onset neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) contribute to both idiopathic and familial forms of PD. Here, we investigated the involvement of LRRK2 in inflammatory pathways using primary dermal fibroblasts from patients with 2 common mutations in LRRK2 (G2019S and R1441G), idiopathic PD and age-matched healthy individuals. Basal cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 RNA levels were very high in the fibroblasts of all patients. Remarkably, LRRK2 silencing experiments significantly reduced basal COX-2 levels and COX-2 induction after a pro-inflammatory stimulus. Additionally, in samples from patients with the R1441G mutation and with idiopathic PD, we found a prominent cytoplasmic re-distribution of human antigen R, a protein that, among others, stabilizes COX-2 RNA. Furthermore, the response to lipopolysaccharide was defective in these 2 groups, which showed weak induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines and reduced NFB transcriptional activation. In summary, we describe multiple defects in inflammatory pathways in which LRRK2 appears to be critically involved. Further studies are required to establish the therapeutic implications of inflammatory dysregulation in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is as an adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder involving both upper and lower motor neurons. About 5% of all cases exhibit signs of frontotemporal degeneration (FTD). We established the mutation frequency of C9ORF72, SOD1, TARDBP, and FUS genes in 307 patients with sporadic ALS, 46 patients with familial ALS (FALS), and 73 patients affected with FTD, all originating from the northeastern part of Italy. C9ORF72 pathogenic expansion was found on 22% of familial ALS, 5% of sporadic ALS, and 14% of FTD patients, resulting the most frequently genetic determinant in our cohort. Sequence analysis of ALS cohort identified 2 novel variants on SOD1 (p.Glu41Gly) and FUS (p.Gly496Glyfs*31). Interestingly, the single base deletion on FUS was observed in an homozygous state, suggesting a recessive pattern of inheritance. No point mutations were identified on FTD cohort. Although useful to direct genetic testing, this study results expand the current knowledge of ALS genetics.
Cellular damage by reactive oxygen species and altered neurogenesis are implicated in the etiology of AD and the pathogenic actions of amyloid -peptide (A); the underlying mechanisms and the early oxidative intracellular events triggered by A are not established. In the present study, we found that mouse embryonic cortical neural progenitor cells exhibit intermittent spontaneous mitochondrial superoxide (SO) flashes that require transient opening of mitochondrial permeability transition pores (mPTPs). The incidence of mitochondria SO flash activity in neural progenitor cells (NPCs) increased during the first 6-24 hours of exposure to aggregating amyloid -peptide (A1-42), indicating an increase in transient mPTP opening. Subsequently, the SO flash frequency progressively decreased and ceased between 48 and 72 hours of exposure to A1-42, during which time global cellular reactive oxygen species increased, mitochondrial membrane potential decreased, cytochrome C was released from mitochondria and the cells degenerated. Inhibition of mPTPs and selective reduction in mitochondrial SO flashes significantly ameliorated the negative effects of A1-42 on NPC proliferation and survival. Our findings suggest that mPTP-mediated bursts of mitochondrial SO production is a relatively early and pivotal event in the adverse effects of A1-42 on NPCs. If A inhibits NPC proliferation in the brains of AD patients by a similar mechanism, then interventions that inhibit mPTP-mediated superoxide flashes would be expected to protect NPCs against the adverse effects of A.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder caused by neurodegeneration in neocortex, substantia nigra and brainstem, and synucleinopathy. Some inherited PD is caused by mutations in -synuclein (Syn), and inherited and idiopathic PD is associated with mitochondrial perturbations. However, the mechanisms of pathogenesis are unresolved. We characterized a human Syn transgenic mouse model and tested the hypothesis that the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) is involved in the disease mechanisms. C57BL/6 mice expressing human A53T-mutant Syn driven by a thymic antigen-1 promoter develop a severe, age-related, fatal movement disorder involving ataxia, rigidity, and postural instability. These mice develop synucleinopathy and neocortical, substantia nigra, and cerebello-rubro-thalamic degeneration involving mitochondriopathy and apoptotic and non-apoptotic neurodegeneration. Interneurons undergo apoptotic degeneration in young mice. Mutant Syn associated with dysmorphic neuronal mitochondria and bound voltage-dependent anion channels. Genetic ablation of cyclophilin D, an mPTP modulator, delayed disease onset, and extended lifespans of mutant Syn mice. Thus, mutant Syn transgenic mice on a C57BL/6 background develop PD-like phenotypes, and the mPTP is involved in their disease mechanisms.
Neuroinflammation and degeneration of ascending catecholaminergic systems occur early in the neurodegenerative process. Age and the duration of a pro-inflammatory environment induced by continuous intraventricular lipopolysaccharide (LPS) differentially affect the expression profile of pro- and anti-inflammatory genes and proteins as well as the number of activated microglia (express major histocompatibility complex II; MHC II) and the integrity and density of ascending catecholaminergic neural systems originating from the locus coeruleus (LC) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) in rats. LPS infusion increased gene expression and/or protein levels for both pro- and anti-inflammatory biomarkers. Although LPS infusion stimulated a robust increase in IL-1 gene and protein expression, this increase was blunted with age. LPS infusion also increased the density of activated microglia cells throughout the midbrain and brainstem. Corresponding to the development of a pro-inflammatory environment, LC and SNpc neurons immunopositive for tyrosine-hydroxylase (the rate-limiting synthetic enzyme for dopamine and norepinephrine) decreased in number, along with a decrease in tyrosine-hydroxylase gene expression in the midbrain and/or brainstem region. Our data support the concept that continuous exposure to a pro-inflammatory environment drives exaggerated changes in the production and release of inflammatory mediators that interact with age to impair functional capacity of the SNpc and LC.
Unlike most other cell types, neurons preferentially metabolize glucose via the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) to maintain their antioxidant status. Inhibiting the PPP in neuronal cell models causes cell death. In rodents, inhibition of this pathway causes selective dopaminergic cell death leading to motor deficits resembling parkinsonism. Using postmortem human brain tissue, we characterized glucose metabolism via the PPP in sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and controls. AD brains showed increased nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) production in areas affected by disease. In PD however, increased NADPH production was only seen in the affected areas of late-stage cases. Quantifying PPP NADPH-producing enzymes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, showed a reduction in the putamen of early-stage PD and interestingly in the cerebellum of early and late-stage PD. Importantly, there was no decrease in enzyme levels in the cortex, putamen, or cerebellum of AD. Our results suggest that down-regulation of PPP enzymes and a failure to increase antioxidant reserve is an early event in the pathogenesis of sporadic PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients frequently display loss of body fat mass and increased energy expenditure, and several studies have outlined a relationship between these metabolic abnormalities and disease severity, yet energy metabolism is largely unstudied in mouse models of PD. Here we characterize metabolic and physiologic responses to a high calorie diet (HCD) in mice expressing in neurons a mutant form of human -synuclein (A53T) that causes dominantly inherited familial forms of the disease. A53T (SNCA) and wild type (WT) littermate mice were placed on a HCD for 12 weeks and evaluated for weight gain, food intake, body fat, blood plasma leptin, hunger, glucose tolerance, and energy expenditure. Results were compared with both SNCA and WT mice on a control diet. Despite consuming similar amounts of food, WT mice gained up to 66% of their original body weight on a HCD, whereas SNCA mice gained only 17%. Further, after 12 weeks on a HCD, magnetic resonance imaging analysis revealed that WT mice had significantly greater total and visceral body fat compared with SNCA mice (p &lt; 0.007). At the age of 24 weeks SNCA mice displayed significantly increased hunger compared with WT (p &lt; 0.03). At the age of 36 weeks, SNCA mice displayed significant hypoleptinemia compared with WT, both on a normal diet and a HCD (p &lt; 0.03). The HCD induced insulin insensitivity in WT, but not SNCA mice, as indicated by an oral glucose tolerance test. Finally, SNCA mice displayed greater energy expenditure compared with WT, as measured in a Comprehensive Laboratory Animal Monitoring System, after 12 weeks on a HCD. Thus, SNCA mice are resistant to HCD-induced obesity and insulin resistance and display reduced body fat, increased hunger, hypoleptinemia and increased energy expenditure. Our findings reveal a profile of metabolic dysfunction in a mouse model of PD that is similar to that of human PD patients, thus providing evidence that -synuclein pathology is sufficient to drive such metabolic abnormalities and providing an animal model for discovery of the underlying mechanisms and potential therapeutic interventions.
Cerebral ischemia is characterized by an early disruption of GABAergic neurotransmission contributing to an imbalance of the excitatory/inhibitory equilibrium and neuronal death, but the molecular mechanisms involved are not fully understood. Here we report a downregulation of GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) expression, affecting both mRNA and protein levels of GABA(A)R subunits, in hippocampal neurons subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), an in vitro model of ischemia. Similar alterations in the abundance of GABA(A)R subunits were observed in in vivo brain ischemia. OGD reduced the interaction of surface GABA(A)R with the scaffold protein gephyrin, followed by clathrin-dependent receptor internalization. Internalization of GABA(A)R was dependent on glutamate receptor activation and mediated by dephosphorylation of the 3 subunit at serine 408/409. Expression of phospho-mimetic mutant GABA(A)R 3 subunits prevented receptor internalization and protected hippocampal neurons from ischemic cell death. The results show a key role for 3 GABA(A)R subunit dephosphorylation in the downregulation of GABAergic synaptic transmission in brain ischemia, contributing to neuronal death. GABA(A)R phosphorylation might be a therapeutic target to preserve synaptic inhibition in brain ischemia.
The pathophysiological correlates and the contribution to persisting disability of hypointense T1-weighted MRI lesions, black holes (BH), in multiple sclerosis (MS) are still unclear. In order to study the in vivo functional correlates of this MRI finding, we used 11C-PK11195 PET (PK-PET) to investigate changes in microglial activity. Ten relapsing and 9 progressive MS subjects had a PK-PET scan and a MRI scan alongside a full clinical assessment, including the expanded disability status scale (EDSS) for evaluation of disability. We studied the PK binding potential of the specifically bound radioligand relative to the non-displaceable radioligand in tissue (BPND) in T1 BHs. Out of a total of 1242 BHs identified, 947 were PK enhancing. The PKBPND was correlated with the EDSS (r=0.818; p&lt;0.05) only in the progressive group. In the relapsing patients there was an inverse correlation between PKBPND and BH total lesion volume in whole brain (r=-0.781; p&lt;0.05). When progressive patients were grouped according to the disability outcome at 2years from the PK-PET scan, the total PKBPND in BHs was found to be a significant outcome predictor of disability (p&lt;0.01). Our findings show that relapsing and progressive patients have heterogeneous patterns of PKBPND in T1 BHs and indicate that BHs are not just &quot;holes&quot; representing loss of axons and myelin, but display inflammatory activity in the form of activated microglia. The significant association between PKBPND, neurological impairment and outcome in progressive subjects supports a role for activated microglia in disability progression.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive loss of motor neurons (MNs) and astrogliosis. Recent evidence suggests that factors secreted by activated astrocytes might contribute to degeneration of MNs. We focused on endothelin-1 (ET-1), a peptide which is strongly up-regulated in reactive astrocytes under different pathological conditions. We show that ET-1 is abundantly expressed by reactive astrocytes in the spinal cord of the SOD1-G93A mouse model and sporadic ALS patients. To test if ET-1 might play a role in degeneration of MNs, we investigated its effect on MN survival in an in vitro model of mixed rat spinal cord cultures (MSCs) enriched of astrocytes exhibiting a reactive phenotype. ET-1 exerted a toxic effect on MNs in a time- and concentration-dependent manner, with an exposure to 100-200nM ET-1 for 48h resulting in 40-50% MN cell death. Importantly, ET-1 did not induce MN degeneration when administered on cultures treated with AraC (5M) or grown in a serum-free medium that did not favor astrocyte proliferation and reactivity. We found that both ETA and ETB receptors are enriched in astrocytes in MSCs. The ET-1 toxic effect was mimicked by ET-3 (100nM) and sarafotoxin S6c (10nM), two selective agonists of endothelin-B receptors, and was not additive with that of ET-3 suggesting the involvement of ETB receptors. Surprisingly, however, the ET-1 effect persisted in the presence of the ETB receptor antagonist BQ-788 (200nM-2M) and was slightly reversed by the ETA receptor antagonist BQ-123 (2M), suggesting an atypical pharmacological profile of the astrocytic receptors responsible for ET-1 toxicity. The ET-1 effect was not undone by the ionotropic glutamate receptor AMPA antagonist GYKI 52466 (20M), indicating that it is not caused by an increased glutamate release. Conversely, a 48-hour ET-1 treatment increased MN cell death induced by acute exposure to AMPA (50M), which is indicative of two distinct pathways leading to neuronal death. Altogether these results indicate that ET-1 exerts a toxic effect on cultured MNs through mechanisms mediated by reactive astrocytes and suggest that ET-1 may contribute to MN degeneration in ALS. Thus, a treatment aimed at lowering ET-1 levels or antagonizing its effect might be envisaged as a potential therapeutic strategy to slow down MN degeneration in this devastating disease.
When people experience surprising or sub-optimal performance outcomes, an increase in autonomic arousal helps allocate cognitive resources to adjust behavior accordingly. The locus-coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system regulates a central orienting response to behaviorally relevant events, and might therefore signal the need to attend to and learn from performance feedback. Memories of such events also rely on elevated NE, suggesting that LC activity not only responds to salient performance outcomes but also strengthens memory for stimuli associated with their occurrence. In the present study, we used a monetary incentive delay paradigm to determine whether LC functional connectivity during reaction time feedback relates to trial-by-trial memory of preceding photo-objects. We used one psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analysis to examine patterns of LC functional connectivity that were associated with subsequent memory for picture trials in which negative or positive feedback was given, and a second PPI analysis to investigate whether successfully encoded objects from trials with uncertain outcomes were related to distinct patterns of LC functional connectivity across the brain. The PPI results revealed that successfully encoded negative feedback trials (i.e., responses exceeding the response deadline) were uniquely associated with enhanced functional coupling between the LC and left anterior insula. Furthermore, successful memory for objects in low reaction time certainty trials (i.e., responses closest to the response deadline) were linked to positive LC functional coupling with left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that noradrenergic influences help facilitate memory encoding during outcome processing via dynamic interactions with regions that process negative or unexpected feedback.
In Lymnaea stagnalis, in order to obtain a 10 min short-term memory (STM) of taste avoidance conditioning (TAC) at least 10 paired presentations of a conditioned stimulus (CS), sucrose, and an unconditioned stimulus (US), tactile stimulation to the animal's head, are required. Pre-exposure of snails to the protein kinase C (PKC)  and  activator bryostatin (Bryo) facilitated STM formation in that only 5 paired CS-US trials were required. Typically 20 paired presentations of the CS-US are required for formation of STM and LTM. However, 20 paired presentations do not result in STM or LTM if snails are pre-incubated with a PKC inhibitor, Ro-32-0432. We also found that LTM lasting longer than 48 h was acquired with Bryo incubation for 45 min even after termination of the conditioning paradigm. These data suggest that activation of the  and  isozymes of PKC is crucially involved in the formation of LTM and provide further support for a mechanism that has been conserved across the evolution of species ranging from invertebrate molluscs to higher mammals.
The dorsal striatum has been ascribed to different behavioral roles. While the lateral area (dls) is implicated in habitual actions, its medial part (dms) is linked to goal expectancy. According to this model, dls function includes representation of stimulus-response associations, but not of goals. Dls function has been typically analyzed with regard to movement, and there is no data indicating whether this region could processes specific stimulus-outcome associations. To test this possibility, we analyzed the effects of dls and dms inactivation on the retrieval phase, and dms lesion on the acquisition phase of a latent inhibition procedure using two conditions, long and short presentations of the future conditioned stimulus. Contrary to current theories of basal ganglia function, we report evidence in favor of the dls involvement in cognitive processes of learning and retrieval. Moreover, we provide data about the sequential relationship between dms and dls, in which the dms could be involved, but it would not be critical, in new learning and the dls could be subsequently involved in consolidating cognitive routines.
Smoking has been suggested as one of the risk factor for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) development. In order to investigate whether adverse effects of cigarette smoke in ALS have any association with increase in oxidative stress, disease severity, lipid hydroperoxides (LPO) and superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) levels were measured in biofluids of smoker and never smoker ALS patients and clinically correlated. Serum and CSF from sporadic ALS patients (n=50) diagnosed with El Escorial criteria were collected in the study. Serum (n=50) and CSF (n=42) were also collected from normal healthy controls. The LPO levels were estimated using commercially available kits. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) were used to quantitate SOD1. Their levels were further analyzed among smoker and never smoker subjects. Significantly elevated LPO in sera and CSF of ALS patients were observed (p&lt;0.05). There was considerably increased LPO in sera and CSF of smoker ALS subjects matched with disease severity as compared to never smoker ALS (p&lt;0.05). ALS group did not show any alteration in SOD1 when compared to controls (p&gt;0.05). In addition, no change has been observed in SOD1 levels in ALS subjects who smoke (p&gt;0.05). Increased LPO and unaltered SOD1 in ALS patients may suggest the neuro-pathological association of LPO with ALS disease independent of SOD1. With current findings, it may be proposed that LPO levels might constitute as probable biomarker for smoker ALS patients, however, it cannot be concluded without larger gender matched studies. Additional investigations are needed to determine whether LPO upregulation is primary or secondary to motor neuron degeneration in ALS.
Clinical observations have suggested that antagonism of 5-HT2A receptors may benefit patients with parkinsonian symptomatology. The mechanism of the antiparkinsonian effects of 5-HT2A receptor antagonists has not been fully elucidated. We have shown that the selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist M100907 [R-(+)-alpha-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenethyl)]-4-piperidinemethanol] improved motor impairments in mice treated with the parkinsonian neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). In Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and animal models of parkinsonism dopamine denervation is associated with increased cortico-striatal glutamatergic transmission. We hypothesized that 5-HT2A receptor antagonists may exert their antiparkinsonian effects by decreasing striatal glutamate. Here, using in vivo microdialysis, we have shown an increased basal level of extracellular striatal glutamate when measured 3weeks after MPTP administration. The local administration of M100907 to the striatum significantly decreased striatal extracellular glutamate levels in MPTP-treated and saline treated mice. Basal extracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels were also elevated, whereas dopamine (DA) levels were significantly reduced in the striatum of MPTP-treated mice. Infusion of M100907 into the striatum produced no effect on dopamine or 5-HT levels. Local application of tetrodotoxin suppressed glutamate, 5-HT and DA concentrations in striatal dialysates in the presence or absence of M100907. The striatal expression of the glutamate transporter GLT1 was unchanged. However, there was an upregulation of the expression of 5-HT2A receptors in the striatum of MPTP-treated animals. Our data provide further evidence of enhanced glutamatergic neurotransmission in parkinsonism and demonstrate that blocking 5-HT2A receptors in the striatum will normalize glutamatergic neurotransmission.

Hyperglycemia is considered to be associated with poor outcomes of ischemic stroke. However, it is controversial about the blood glucose-lowering therapy in patients with stroke. According to the current reports, hyperglycemia is an indicator of severe stroke and cannot increase cerebral glucose content but promotes further ischemia in brain. Consequently, cerebral glucose control is significant to maintain the energy homeostasis. Compared with blood glucose level, the cerebral glucose content, controlled by glucose transporters (GLUTs), is more directly and important to maintain the energy supply in brain, especially to the patients with ischemic stroke. Some active materials, such as Glucagon-like peptide-1, progesterone, tPA and N-acetylcysteine, have been found to ameliorate ischemic stroke by regulating GLUTs expression. Therefore, this review discusses the significance of cerebral glucose level and GLUTs. Additionally, cerebral GLUTs and their actions in ischemic stroke are detailed in order to promote research on GLUTs as a possible therapeutic target for ischemic stroke.
The viability of retinal ganglion cells (RGC) is essential for the maintenance of visual function. RGC homeostasis is maintained by the surrounding retinal glial cells, the Mller cells, which buffer the extracellular concentration of neurotransmitters and provide the RGCs with energy. This study evaluates if glucose-deprivation of Mller cells interferes with their ability to remove glutamate from the extracellular space. The human Mller glial cell line, Moorfields/Institute of Ophthalmology-Mller 1, was used to study changes in glutamate uptake. Excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT) proteins were up-regulated in glucose-deprived Mller cells and glutamate uptake was significantly increased in the absence of glucose. The present findings revealed an up-regulation of EAAT1 and EAAT2 in glucose-deprived Mller cells as well as an increased ability to take up glutamate. Hence, glucose deprivation may result in an increased ability to protect RGCs from glutamate-induced excitotoxicity, whereas malfunction of glutamate uptake in Mller cells may contribute to retinal neurodegeneration.

We report experiments designed to learn whether different kinds of perceptually unstable visual images engage different neural mechanisms. 21 subjects viewed two types of bi-stable images while we scanned the activity in their brains with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI); in one (intra-categorical type) the two percepts remained within the same category (e.g. face-face) while in the other (cross-categorical type) they crossed categorical boundaries (e.g. face-body). The results showed that cross- and intra-categorical reversals share a common reversal-related neural circuitry, which includes fronto-parietal cortex and primary visual cortex (area V1). Cross-categorical reversals alone engaged additional areas, notably anterior cingulate cortex and superior temporal gyrus, which have been posited to be involved in conflict resolution.
There has been a long history of research on visual working memory. Whereas early studies have focused on the role of lateral prefrontal cortex in the storage of sensory information, this has been challenged by research in humans that has directly assessed the encoding of perceptual contents, pointing towards a role of visual and parietal regions during storage. In a previous study we used pattern classification to investigate the storage of complex visual color patterns across delay periods. This revealed coding of such contents in early visual and parietal brain regions. Here we aim to investigate whether the involvement of visual and parietal cortex is also observable for other types of complex, visuo-spatial pattern stimuli. Specifically, we used a combination of fMRI and multivariate classification to investigate the retention of complex flow-field stimuli defined by the spatial patterning of motion trajectories of random dots. Subjects were trained to memorize the precise spatial layout of these stimuli and to retain this information during an extended delay. We used a multivariate decoding approach to identify brain regions where spatial patterns of activity encoded the memorized stimuli. Content-specific memory signals were observable in motion sensitive visual area MT+ and in posterior parietal cortex that might encode spatial information in a modality independent manner. Interestingly, we also found information about the memorized visual stimulus in somatosensory cortex, suggesting a potential crossmodal contribution to memory. Our findings thus indicate that working memory storage of visual percepts might be distributed across unimodal, multimodal and even crossmodal brain regions.
Social considerations significantly influence daily purchase decisions, and the perception of social risk (i.e., the anticipated disapproval of others) is crucial in dissuading consumers from making purchases. However, the neural basis for consumers' perception of social risk remains undiscovered, and this novel study clarifies the relevant neural processes. A total of 26 volunteers were scanned while they evaluated purchase intention of products (purchase intention task) and their anticipation of others' disapproval for possessing a product (social risk task), using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The fMRI data from the purchase intention task was used to identify the brain region associated with perception of social risk during purchase decision making by using subjective social risk ratings for a parametric modulation analysis. Furthermore, we aimed to explore if there was a difference between participants' purchase decisions and their explicit evaluations of social risk, with reference to the neural activity associated with social risk perception. For this, subjective social risk ratings were used for a parametric modulation analysis on fMRI data from the social risk task. Analysis of the purchase intention task revealed a significant positive correlation between ratings of social risk and activity in the anterior insula, an area of the brain that is known as part of the emotion-related network. Analysis of the social risk task revealed a significant positive correlation between ratings of social risk and activity in the temporal parietal junction and the medial prefrontal cortex, which are known as theory-of-mind regions. Our results suggest that the anterior insula processes consumers' social risk implicitly to prompt consumers not to buy socially unacceptable products, whereas ToM-related regions process such risk explicitly in considering the anticipated disapproval of others. These findings may prove helpful in understanding the mental processes involved in purchase decisions.
Stimulus-response compatibility (SRC)-the fact that some stimulus-response pairs are faster than others-is attributed in part to automatic activation of the stimulus-compatible response representation. Cognitive models of SRC propose that automatic response activation can be strategically suppressed if the automatic response is likely to interfere with behavior; in particular, suppression is thought to occur in preparation for incompatible responses and when the required stimulus-response mapping is unknown before stimulus presentation. We test this preparatory suppression hypothesis in the context of imitation, a special form of SRC particularly relevant to human social behavior. Using TMS, we measured muscle-specific corticospinal excitability during action observation (motor resonance) while human participants prepared to perform imitative and counterimitative responses to action videos. Motor resonance was suppressed during preparation to counterimitate and for unknown mappings, compared to preparation to imitate and a baseline measure of motor resonance. These results provide novel neurophysiological evidence that automatic activation of stimulus-compatible responses can be strategically suppressed when the automatic response is likely to interfere with task goals. Insofar as motor resonance measures mirror neuron system activity, these results also suggest that preparatory control of automatic imitative tendencies occurs through modulation of mirror neuron system activity.
Object recognition becomes impaired at faster presentation rates and here we show the neuroanatomical foci of where this might be exacerbated by sleep deprivation (SD). Twenty healthy human participants were asked to detect a target house in serially presented house pictures that appeared at 1-15images/s. Temporal response profiles relating fMRI signal magnitude to presentation frequency were derived from task-responsive regions. Following SD, the inverted U-shaped response profile within parahippocampal place area was lower and peaked at a slower presentation rate than when participants slept normally. Contrastingly, SD did not shift the relatively monotonic early visual cortex responses. The intraparietal sulci but not the frontal eye fields or medial frontal region, showed similar shifts in temporal response profiles following SD, suggesting differential contribution of areas mediating attention control towards limiting rapid object processing. As nodes of the default mode network (DMN) continued to show monotonically increasing deactivation at higher presentation frequencies even following SD, the observed state modulations of temporal responses likely represent temporal limitations in object processing as opposed to task disengagement.
Event-related potential studies of grammatical gender agreement often report a left anterior negativity (LAN) when agreement violations occur. Some studies have shown that during sentence comprehension gender violations can also interact with semantic processing to modulate a negativity associated with processing meaning - the N400. Given that the LAN and N400 overlap in time, they are identified by their scalp distributions and purported functional roles. Critically, grammatical gender violations also elicit a right posterior positivity that can overlap temporally and potentially affect the scalp distribution of the LAN/N400. We measured the effect of grammatical gender violations in the LAN/N400 window and late positive component (LPC) during comprehension of Spanish sentences. A post-nominal adjective could either make sense or not, and either agree or disagree in gender with the preceding noun. We observed a negativity to gender agreement violations in the LAN/N400 window (300-500ms post stimulus onset) that was smaller than the semantic-congruity N400, but overlapped with it in time and distribution. The early portion of the LPC to gender violations was modulated by sentence constraint, occurring as early as 450ms in highly constraining sentences. A subadditive interaction occurred at the later portion of the LPC with equivalent effects for single and double violations (gender and semantics), reflecting a general stage of reprocessing. Overall, our data support models of language comprehension whereby both semantic and morphosyntactic information can affect processing at similar time points.
Persistent pain is a central characteristic of neuropathic pain conditions in humans. Knowing whether rodent models of neuropathic pain produce persistent pain is therefore crucial to their translational applicability. We investigated the spared nerve injury (SNI) model of neuropathic pain and the formalin pain model in rats using positron emission tomography (PET) with the metabolic tracer [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to determine if there is ongoing brain activity suggestive of persistent pain. For the formalin model, under brief anesthesia we injected one hindpaw with 5% formalin and the FDG tracer into a tail vein. We then allowed the animals to awaken and observed pain behavior for 30min during the FDG uptake period. The rat was then anesthetized and placed in the scanner for static image acquisition, which took place between minutes 45 and 75 post-tracer injection. A single reference rat brain magnetic resonance image (MRI) was used to align the PET images with the Paxinos and Watson rat brain atlas. Increased glucose metabolism was observed in the somatosensory region associated with the injection site (S1 hindlimb contralateral), S1 jaw/upper lip and cingulate cortex. Decreases were observed in the prelimbic cortex and hippocampus. Second, SNI rats were scanned 3weeks post-surgery using the same scanning paradigm, and region-of-interest analyses revealed increased metabolic activity in the contralateral S1 hindlimb. Finally, a second cohort of SNI rats was scanned while anesthetized during the tracer uptake period, and the S1 hindlimb increase was not observed. Increased brain activity in the somatosensory cortex of SNI rats resembled the activity produced with the injection of formalin, suggesting that the SNI model may produce persistent pain. The lack of increased activity in S1 hindlimb with general anesthetic demonstrates that this effect can be blocked, as well as highlights the importance of investigating brain activity in awake and behaving rodents.
In slot machine gambling, the &quot;near-miss effect&quot; (when a losing display physically resembles an actual win display) has been implicated in pathological gambling (PG). Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with PG and non-PG participants shows that near-misses recruit reward-related circuitry, but little is known about the temporal dynamics and oscillatory changes underlying near-misses. The present multi-modal imaging study investigated the near-miss effect by combining the spatial resolution of blood oxygen-level dependent (BOLD)-fMRI with the spatial and temporal resolution of magnetoencephalography (MEG) during a slot machine task in PG and non-PG groups. Given previous findings on outcome (win and near-miss) processing, functional overlap was hypothesized between induced changes in temporal oscillations and BOLD response to wins and near-misses in PG. We first validated our task in a sample of varying gambling severity using BOLD-fMRI and then compared PG and non-PG participants using MEG to investigate changes in induced oscillatory power associated with win and near-miss, relative to loss, outcomes. Across both modalities, near-misses recruited similar brain regions to wins, including right inferior frontal gyrus and insula. Using MEG, increased theta-band (4-7Hz) oscillations to near-misses were observed in the insula and right orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Furthermore, this theta-band activity was positively associated with gambling severity. These findings demonstrate that the near-miss effect in insula and OFC is associated with induced theta oscillations. The significance of these findings for theories of PG and the development of potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets is discussed.
This study investigated the effects of kinesthetic stimuli on brain activities during a sustained-attention task in an immersive driving simulator. Tonic and phasic brain responses on multiple timescales were analyzed using time-frequency analysis of electroencephalographic (EEG) sources identified by independent component analysis (ICA). Sorting EEG spectra with respect to reaction times (RT) to randomly introduced lane-departure events revealed distinct effects of kinesthetic stimuli on the brain under different performance levels. Experimental results indicated that EEG spectral dynamics highly correlated with performance lapses when driving involved kinesthetic feedback. Furthermore, in the realistic environment involving both visual and kinesthetic feedback, a transitive relationship of power spectra between optimal-, suboptimal-, and poor-performance groups was found predominately across most of the independent components. In contrast to the static environment with visual input only, kinesthetic feedback reduced theta-power augmentation in the central and frontal components when preparing for action and error monitoring, while strengthening alpha suppression in the central component while steering the wheel. In terms of behavior, subjects tended to have a short response time to process unexpected events with the assistance of kinesthesia, yet only when their performance was optimal. Decrease in attentional demand, facilitated by kinesthetic feedback, eventually significantly increased the reaction time in the suboptimal-performance state. Neurophysiological evidence of mutual relationships between behavioral performance and neurocognition in complex task paradigms and experimental environments, presented in this study, might elucidate our understanding of distributed brain dynamics, supporting natural human cognition and complex coordinated, multi-joint naturalistic behavior, and lead to improved understanding of brain-behavior relations in operating environments.
The standard account of motor control considers descending outputs from primary motor cortex (M1) as motor commands and efference copy. This account has been challenged recently by an alternative formulation in terms of active inference: M1 is considered as part of a sensorimotor hierarchy providing top-down proprioceptive predictions. The key difference between these accounts is that predictions are sensitive to the current proprioceptive context, whereas efference copy is not. Using functional electric stimulation to experimentally manipulate proprioception during voluntary movement in healthy human subjects, we assessed the evidence for context sensitive output from M1. Dynamic causal modeling of functional magnetic resonance imaging responses showed that FES altered proprioception increased the influence of M1 on primary somatosensory cortex (S1). These results disambiguate competing accounts of motor control, provide some insight into the synaptic mechanisms of sensory attenuation and may speak to potential mechanisms of action of FES in promoting motor learning in neurorehabilitation.
Beta oscillations are involved in movement and have previously been linked to levels of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA. We examined changes in beta oscillations during rest and movement in primary motor cortex (M1). Amplitude and frequency of beta power at rest and movement-related beta desynchronization (MRBD) were measured during a simple unimanual grip task and their relationship with age was explored in a group of healthy participants. We were able to show that at rest, increasing age was associated with greater baseline beta power in M1 contralateral to the active hand, with a similar (non-significant) trend in ipsilateral M1. During movement, increasing age was associated with increased MRBD amplitude in ipsilateral M1 and reduced frequency (in contralateral and ipsilateral M1). These findings would be consistent with greater GABAergic inhibitory activity within motor cortices of older subjects. These oscillatory parameters have the potential to reveal changes in the excitatory-inhibitory balance in M1 which in turn may be a useful marker of plasticity in the brain, both in healthy ageing and disease.
Oscillatory interactions within functionally specialized but distributed brain regions are believed to be central to perceptual and cognitive functions. Here, using human scalp electroencephalography (EEG) recordings combined with source reconstruction techniques, we study how oscillatory activity functionally organizes different neocortical regions during a tactile discrimination task near the limit of spatial acuity. While undergoing EEG recordings, blindfolded participants felt a linear three-dot array presented electromechanically, under computer control, and reported whether the central dot was offset to the left or right. The average brain response differed significantly for trials with correct and incorrect perceptual responses in the timeframe approximately between 130 and 175ms. During trials with correct responses, source-level peak activity appeared in the left primary somatosensory cortex (SI) at around 45ms, in the right lateral occipital complex (LOC) at 130ms, in the right posterior intraparietal sulcus (pIPS) at 160ms, and finally in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) at 175ms. Spectral interdependency analysis of activity in these nodes showed two distinct distributed networks, a dominantly feedforward network in the beta band (12-30Hz) that included all four nodes and a recurrent network in the gamma band (30-100Hz) that linked SI, pIPS and dlPFC. Measures of network activity in both bands were correlated with the accuracy of task performance. These findings suggest that beta and gamma band oscillatory networks coordinate activity between neocortical regions mediating sensory and cognitive processing to arrive at tactile perceptual decisions.
Understanding speech from different speakers is a sophisticated process, particularly because the same acoustic parameters convey important information about both the speech message and the person speaking. How the human brain accomplishes speech recognition under such conditions is unknown. One view is that speaker information is discarded at early processing stages and not used for understanding the speech message. An alternative view is that speaker information is exploited to improve speech recognition. Consistent with the latter view, previous research identified functional interactions between the left- and the right-hemispheric superior temporal sulcus/gyrus, which process speech- and speaker-specific vocal tract parameters, respectively. Vocal tract parameters are one of the two major acoustic features that determine both speaker identity and speech message (phonemes). Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we show that a similar interaction exists for glottal fold parameters between the left and right Heschl's gyri. Glottal fold parameters are the other main acoustic feature that determines speaker identity and speech message (linguistic prosody). The findings suggest that interactions between left- and right-hemispheric areas are specific to the processing of different acoustic features of speech and speaker, and that they represent a general neural mechanism when understanding speech from different speakers.
Across the animal kingdom, sensations resulting from an animal's own actions are processed differently from sensations resulting from external sources, with self-generated sensations being suppressed. A forward model has been proposed to explain this process across sensorimotor domains. During vocalization, reduced processing of one's own speech is believed to result from a comparison of speech sounds to corollary discharges of intended speech production generated from efference copies of commands to speak. Until now, anatomical and functional evidence validating this model in humans has been indirect. Using EEG with anatomical MRI to facilitate source localization, we demonstrate that inferior frontal gyrus activity during the 300ms before speaking was associated with suppressed processing of speech sounds in auditory cortex around 100ms after speech onset (N1). These findings indicate that an efference copy from speech areas in prefrontal cortex is transmitted to auditory cortex, where it is used to suppress processing of anticipated speech sounds. About 100ms after N1, a subsequent auditory cortical component (P2) was not suppressed during talking. The combined N1 and P2 effects suggest that although sensory processing is suppressed as reflected in N1, perceptual gaps may be filled as reflected in the lack of P2 suppression, explaining the discrepancy between sensory suppression and preserved sensory experiences. These findings, coupled with the coherence between relevant brain regions before and during speech, provide new mechanistic understanding of the complex interactions between action planning and sensory processing that provide for differentiated tagging and monitoring of one's own speech, processes disrupted in neuropsychiatric disorders.
We present a novel approach to the third order spectral analysis, commonly called bispectral analysis, of electroencephalographic (EEG) and magnetoencephalographic (MEG) data for studying cross-frequency functional brain connectivity. The main obstacle in estimating functional connectivity from EEG and MEG measurements lies in the signals being a largely unknown mixture of the activities of the underlying brain sources. This often constitutes a severe confounder and heavily affects the detection of brain source interactions. To overcome this problem, we previously developed metrics based on the properties of the imaginary part of coherency. Here, we generalize these properties from the linear to the nonlinear case. Specifically, we propose a metric based on an antisymmetric combination of cross-bispectra, which we demonstrate to be robust to mixing artifacts. Moreover, our metric provides complex-valued quantities that give the opportunity to study phase relationships between brain sources. The effectiveness of the method is first demonstrated on simulated EEG data. The proposed approach shows a reduced sensitivity to mixing artifacts when compared with a traditional bispectral metric. It also exhibits a better performance in extracting phase relationships between sources than the imaginary part of the cross-spectrum for delayed interactions. The method is then applied to real EEG data recorded during resting state. A cross-frequency interaction is observed between brain sources at 10Hz and 20Hz, i.e., for alpha and beta rhythms. This interaction is then projected from signal to source level by using a fit-based procedure. This approach highlights a 10-20Hz dominant interaction localized in an occipito-parieto-central network.
The olfactory bulb is a laminarized brain structure involved in odor sensation that has important implications to basic neuroscience research, like mechanisms for neurovascular coupling and early disease diagnosis. To investigate laminar-dependent responses to odor exposure, blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) and cerebral blood volume weighted (CBVw) fMRI with iron oxide nanoparticle contrast agent were obtained with 110110500m(3) resolution in urethane-anesthetized rats at 9.4T. The baseline total CBV is the largest at the olfactory bulb surface and midline, and decreases in the deeper layers, while a band of increased microvasculature density is observed at the glomerular, external plexiform and mitral cell layers. With odor exposure, CBVw fMRI is more sensitive and reproducible than BOLD. BOLD fMRI had the greatest activation on the bulb surface, midline, olfactory nerve and glomerular layers, while CBVw activation peaked in glomerular and external plexiform layers, but was still significant in mitral cell layer. Negative BOLD responses were observed in the bulb midline and near large blood vessels. CBVw laminar profiles are similar to the layer-dependent metabolic changes to the same odor exposure reported by previous glucose metabolism studies. Unique activation patterns for two different odor conditions were also differentiated with CBVw fMRI. Our study suggests that CBVw activation better represents the spatial location of metabolic activity in the olfactory bulb than BOLD.
Cluster-extent based thresholding is currently the most popular method for multiple comparisons correction of statistical maps in neuroimaging studies, due to its high sensitivity to weak and diffuse signals. However, cluster-extent based thresholding provides low spatial specificity; researchers can only infer that there is signal somewhere within a significant cluster and cannot make inferences about the statistical significance of specific locations within the cluster. This poses a particular problem when one uses a liberal cluster-defining primary threshold (i.e., higher p-values), which often produces large clusters spanning multiple anatomical regions. In such cases, it is impossible to reliably infer which anatomical regions show true effects. From a survey of 814 functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies published in 2010 and 2011, we show that the use of liberal primary thresholds (e.g., p&lt;.01) is endemic, and that the largest determinant of the primary threshold level is the default option in the software used. We illustrate the problems with liberal primary thresholds using an fMRI dataset from our laboratory (N=33), and present simulations demonstrating the detrimental effects of liberal primary thresholds on false positives, localization, and interpretation of fMRI findings. To avoid these pitfalls, we recommend several analysis and reporting procedures, including 1) setting primary p&lt;.001 as a default lower limit; 2) using more stringent primary thresholds or voxel-wise correction methods for highly powered studies; and 3) adopting reporting practices that make the level of spatial precision transparent to readers. We also suggest alternative and supplementary analysis methods.
Using simultaneous acquisition from multiple channels of a radio-frequency (RF) coil array, magnetic resonance inverse imaging (InI) achieves functional MRI acquisitions at a rate of 100ms per whole-brain volume. InI accelerates the scan by leaving out partition encoding steps and reconstructs images by solving under-determined inverse problems using RF coil sensitivity information. Hence, the correlated spatial information available in the coil array causes spatial blurring in the InI reconstruction. Here, we propose a method that employs gradient blips in the partition encoding direction during the acquisition to provide extra spatial encoding in order to better differentiate signals from different partitions. According to our simulations, this blipped-InI (bInI) method can increase the average spatial resolution by 15.1% (1.3mm) across the whole brain and from 32.6% (4.2mm) in subcortical regions, as compared to the InI method. In a visual fMRI experiment, we demonstrate that, compared to InI, the spatial distribution of bInI BOLD response is more consistent with that of a conventional echo-planar imaging (EPI) at the level of individual subjects. With the improved spatial resolution, especially in subcortical regions, bInI can be a useful fMRI tool for obtaining high spatiotemporal information for clinical and cognitive neuroscience studies.
Models of action selection postulate the critical involvement of the subthalamic nucleus (STN), especially in reactive inhibition processes when inappropriate responses to a sudden stimulus must be overridden. The STN could also play a key role during proactive inhibition, when subjects prepare to potentially suppress their actions. Here, we hypothesized that STN responses to reactive and proactive inhibitory control might be driven by different underlying mechanisms with specific temporal profiles. Direct neural recordings in twelve Parkinson's disease patients during a modified stop signal task (SST) revealed a decrease of beta band activity (A, 13-35Hz) in the STN during reactive inhibition of smaller amplitude and shorter duration than during motor execution. Crucially, the onset latency of this relative increase of A took place before the stop signal reaction time. It could thus be thought of as a &quot;stop&quot; signal inhibiting thalamo-cortical activity that would have supported motor execution. Finally, results also revealed a higher level of A in the STN during proactive inhibition, which correlated with patient's inhibitory performances. We propose that A in the STN would here participate in the implementation of a &quot;hold your horse&quot; signal to delay motor responses, thus prioritizing accuracy as compared to speed. In brief, our results provide strong electrophysiological support for the hypothesized role of the STN during executive control underlying proactive and reactive response suppression.
Explicit negative attitudes and blameful beliefs (e.g. poor diet, laziness) towards obese individuals are well documented and are pervasive even among health professionals. Here we sought to determine whether obesity stigma is reflected in a fundamental feature of intersubjectivity namely the automatic neural resonance with others' affective experiences. During fMRI, normal-weight female participants observed short clips depicting normal-weight (NW) and obese (Ob) models experiencing pain. Importantly, participants believed that half of the Ob were overweight due to a hormonal disorder (HormOb) and ignored the cause of obesity of the remaining models (Unknown obese models; UnkOb). Analyses of hemodynamic responses showed reduced activity to the pain of Ob compared to that of NW in areas associated with pain processing and early visual processing. The comparison between the two Ob conditions revealed a further decrease of activity to HormOb's pain compared to UnkOb's (and NW) pain in the right inferior frontal gyrus, an area associated with emotional resonance. Our study demonstrates that stigma for obese individuals can be observed at implicit levels, and that it is modulated by knowledge concerning the etiology of obesity, with the seemingly surprising result that obesity due to disease may result in greater stigmatization. Moreover, the perceived similarity with the models and the ambivalent emotion of pity may index biased brain responses to obese individuals' pain. The study highlights a possibly important neural link between resonance with the pain of others and obesity stigma.
The clinical association between stroke and headache is complex, ranging from the largely irrelevant to the highly specific. The incidence and clinical relevance of acute headache are highly dependent on stroke subtype and etiology. In this article the issue of headache accompanying acute stroke is addressed in some detail.
This paper reviews sex-related differences in migraine epidemiology, symptoms, natural history and co-morbid disorders. Migraine is more than twice as common in females as in males, and women experience more frequent, longer lasting and more painful attacks, have more disability and a risk of transition from episodic to chronic migraine greater than men, but the mechanisms behind these differences are still poorly understood. The role of sex hormones, genes, and the differences in brain function and structure are discussed. Finally, we evaluate the many gender-related questions about treatment of migraine in women. In future research data should be analyzed separately for men and women to ensure that differences between the sexes could be identified.
Patients with chronic migraine (CM) and medication overuse headache (MOH) have high frequency of psychiatric comorbidity or psychopathological traits, the presence of which can influence the clinical course. The presence of subclinical obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is underestimated in migraine patients. The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence and profile of obsessive-compulsive (OBS) trait in a sample of CM patients with MOH using the OBS questionnaire of Spectrum Collaborative Project. According to the new international classification of headache disorders (ICHD-III beta) criteria, 106 patients (15M, 91F, mean age 47.3years) were selected in a consecutive clinical series. Our results showed that 36% of patients with CM and MOH were positive at OBS-questionnaire. As far as the profile of OBS trait, we performed an evaluation of prevalence of items separating the first part of the questionnaire (childhood/adolescence and doubts in lifetime) from the other five domains: 21% of the patients showed prevalence of items in childhood/adolescence domain; 79% in doubts in lifetime domain; as for other five domains, 10.5% of patients had prevalence of pathological answers among hypercontrol, 5.2% in spending time, 23.7% in perfectionism, 29% in repetition and automation, and 31.5% in specific themes (obsessive thoughts). The presence of subclinical OCD in migraine patients, and the link between progression to CM, particularly through MO, and OBS trait is still not well defined. The use of specific tools to assess this possible comorbidity should be encouraged in clinical and research settings.
The co-occurrence of epistaxis and headache is not uncommon in migraine patients, although only few case reports have been published. A trigeminovascular activation may be causally involved although the exact mechanisms linking epistaxis and migraine remain unclear. Significant dural sinus stenosis may sustain or worsen an increased cerebral venous pressure and is considered a radiological predictor of idiopathic intracranial hypertension. We report a 49-year-old female patient with chronic migraine associated to stabbing headache-like attacks followed by epistaxis and by the resolution or the significant improvement of pain. As she also reported adjunctive symptoms suggestive of raised intracranial pressure and showed a bilateral narrowing of transverse sinuses at MR-venography, a possible intracranial hypertension was hypothesized despite the lack of papilledema. Acetazolamide 250mg twice/day was added to therapy and the patient reported sudden reduction of headache severity and frequency and complete resolution of both the stabbing pain and the recurrent epistaxis, maintained for 5months. At treatment discontinuation she complained the worsening of migraine headache and the reoccurrence of the superimposed stabbing pain followed by epistaxis. The mechanism linking the sequential occurrence of painful stabs, epistaxis and relief from pain with raised intracranial pressure in our patients remains unclear. We speculate that the sudden reopening of collapsed collateral veins of the anterior venous circle, possibly prompted by periodic waves of central venous hypertension coupled with intracranial hypertensive peaks, could explain the unusual strict time succession of painful stabs, epistaxis, and subsequent resolution of pain.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a complex disease triggered by environmental and genetic agents, and clinically characterized by bout onset (BOMS) or progressive onset (PrMS). We collected clinical and familial aggregation data in a cohort of 518 Italian PrMS patients, and compared with 400 BOMS cases. An increased prevalence of MS in first-degree relatives of Italian PrMS was found. Familial aggregation is not influenced by probands' clinical course, and there is no disease course concordance within MS families. These data are useful in counseling MS patients affected with different clinical courses of the disease.
Angelman syndrome is a neurogenetic disorder that severely affects global neurodevelopment due to modifications in the structure or functioning of UBE3A gene. Its prevalence ranges from 1:10,000 to 1:40,000. There are four main genetic types of AS transmission. A maternal deletion in 15q11.2-q13 is the most common type. There are three well-established electroencephalogram (EEG) patterns used as an ancillary tool for AS diagnosis. The main objectives are to scrutinize the EEG patterns in Angelman syndrome, their correlation to different types of seizures and to review the role of the EEG as an ancillary screening tool in the diagnosis of clinically suspected patients. Forty-three patients' charts and their previously recorded EEGs were reviewed. A set of 34 patients with deletion type, paternal uniparental disomy type and imprint defect type AS were enrolled. AS diagnosis was confirmed either by fluorescent in situ hybridization test or Methylation Specific-Multiplex Ligation Probe Amplification test. Sequencing of UBE3A was not available. Frequencies and Chi-square tests were used for statistic analysis. Pattern I type EEG was observed in 22 (64.7 %) individuals. Pattern II accounted for 6 (17.6 %); Pattern III was evident in 11 (32.4 %). The three distinguished EEG patterns, more frequently Pattern I, when observed in the appropriate clinical setting, may heighten the index of suspicion for selecting patients who will need a molecular biology test to confirm the diagnosis of AS.
Recent evidence indicates that severe abnormalities in brain glucose/energy metabolism and insulin signaling have been documented to take a pivotal role in early sporadic Alzheimer's disease pathology. It has been reported that naringenin (NAR), derived from citrus aurantium, exhibits antioxidant potential and protects the brain against neurodegeneration. The current study was designed to further investigate the protective effect of the NAR on neurodegeneration in a rat model of AD induced by an intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of streptozotocin (STZ), and to determine whether this neuroprotective effect was associated with brain insulin signaling. Rats were injected bilaterally with ICV-STZ (3 mg/kg), while sham rats received the same volume of vehicle and then supplemented with NAR (25, 50 mg, 100 mg/kg, respectively) for 3 weeks. The ICV-STZ injected rats did not have elevated blood glucose levels. 21 days following ICV-STZ injection, rats treated with NAR had better learning and memory performance in the Morris water maze test compared with rats treated with saline. We demonstrated that NAR increased the mRNA expression of INS and INSR in cerebral cortex and hippocampus. In addition, NAR reversed ICV-STZ induced Tau hyper-phosphorylation in both hippocampus and cerebral cortex through downregulation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) activity, a key kinase in the insulin signaling. Brain levels of Abeta, which were elevated in ICV-STZ rats, were significantly reduced in NAR-treated rats via upregulation of insulin degrading enzyme. These effects were mediated by increased insulin and insulin receptors expression in the brain, suggesting that insulin sensitizer agents might have therapeutic efficacy in early AD.

Mutations in the glucosamine (UDP-N-acetyl)-2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase gene cause GNE myopathy, a mildly progressive autosomal recessive myopathy. We performed a prospective natural history study in 24 patients with GNE myopathy to select evaluation tools for use in upcoming clinical trials. Patient clinical conditions were evaluated at study entry and one-year follow-up. Of the 24 patients, eight (33.3%) completed a standard 6-min walk test without assistance. No cardiac events were observed. Summed manual muscle testing of 17 muscles, grip power, and percent force vital capacity (%FVC) were significantly reduced (p&lt;0.05), and scores for 6-min walk test and gross motor function measure were decreased (p&lt;0.1) after one year. The decrement in %FVC was significant among non-ambulant patients, whereas the decrement in grip power tended to be greater among ambulant patients. The 6-min walk test, gross motor function measure, manual muscle testing, grip power, and %FVC reflect annual changes and are thus considered good evaluation tools for clinical trials.
Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy primarily affects the muscles of the hips and shoulders (the &quot;limb-girdle&quot; muscles), although it is a heterogeneous disorder that can present with varying symptoms. There is currently no cure. We sought to identify the genetic basis of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1 in an American family of Northern European descent using exome sequencing. Exome sequencing was performed on DNA samples from two affected siblings and one unaffected sibling and resulted in the identification of eleven candidate mutations that co-segregated with the disease. Notably, this list included a previously reported mutation in DNAJB6, p.Phe89Ile, which was recently identified as a cause of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1D. Additional family members were Sanger sequenced and the mutation in DNAJB6 was only found in affected individuals. Subsequent haplotype analysis indicated that this DNAJB6 p.Phe89Ile mutation likely arose independently of the previously reported mutation. Since other published mutations are located close by in the G/F domain of DNAJB6, this suggests that the area may represent a mutational hotspot. Exome sequencing provided an unbiased and effective method for identifying the genetic etiology of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1 in a previously genetically uncharacterized family. This work further confirms the causative role of DNAJB6 mutations in limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1D.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of short non-coding RNAs that primarily regulate protein synthesis through reversible translational repression or mRNA degradation. MiRNAs can act by translational control of transcription factors or via direct action on the chromatin, and thereby contribute to the non-genetic control of gene-environment interactions. MiRNAs that regulate components of pathways required for learning and memory further modulate the influence of epigenetics on cognition in the normal and diseased brain. This review summarizes recent data exemplifying the known roles of miRNAs in memory formation in different model organisms, and describes how neuronal plasticity regulates miRNA biogenesis, activity and degradation. It also examines the relevance of miRNAs for memory impairment in human, using recent clinical observations related to neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases, and discusses the potential mechanisms by which these miRNAs may contribute to memory disorders. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neuroepigenetic Disorders'.
It is well-established that neuronal intracellular signaling governed by the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK/MAPK) plays a crucial role in long-term adaptive changes that occur during cognitive processes. ERK is a downstream component of a conserved signaling module that is activated by the serine/threonine kinase, Raf, which activates the MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK)1/2 protein kinases, which, in turn, activate ERK1/2. This signaling pathway has been reported to be activated in numerous physiological conditions due to a variety of stimuli, ranging from the activation of ionotropic glutamatergic receptors to metabotropic dopaminergic receptors and neurotrophin receptors. Interestingly, activated ERK can have early and late downstream effects at both the nuclear and synaptic levels. Locally, ERK signaling results in transient changes in the efficacy of synaptic transmission by modifying both pre- and post-synaptic targets. Once translocated into the nucleus, ERK signaling may control transcription by targeting several different regulators of gene expression such as transcription factors and histone proteins. ERK function is considered fundamental in processes such as long-term memory storage and drug addiction, by means of its role in activity-dependent epigenetic modifications that occur in the brain. In this review, we summarize the current understanding of ERK action in the neuroepigenetic processes underlying physiological responses, cognitive processes and drug addiction. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neuroepigenetic Disorders'.
Cognitive disorders (CDs) are a heterogeneous group of disorders for which the genetic foundations are rapidly being uncovered. The large number of CD-associated gene mutations presents an opportunity to identify common mechanisms of disease as well as molecular processes that are of key importance to human cognition. Given the disproportionately high number of epigenetic genes associated with CD, epigenetic regulation of gene transcription is emerging as a process of major importance in cognition. The cognate protein products of these genes often co-operate in shared protein complexes or pathways, which is reflected in similarities between the neurodevelopmental phenotypes corresponding to these mutant genes. Here we provide an overview of the genes associated with CDs, and highlight some of the epigenetic regulatory complexes involving multiple CD genes. Such common gene networks may provide a handle for designing therapeutic interventions applicable to a number of cognitive disorders with variable genetic etiology. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neuroepigenetic Disorders'.
Cells maintain precise gene expression by balancing transcriptional activation and repression. While much work has focused on elucidating transcriptional activation in the central nervous system (CNS), little is known about transcriptional repression. One means to repress gene expression is to initiate binding of transcription factors to DNA, which then recruit co-repressors as well as other accessory proteins, forming a multi-protein repressor complex. These multi-protein repressor complexes include histone modifying enzymes that trigger processes such as histone acetylation, methylation, and ubiquitylation, altering chromatin structures to impact gene expression. Within these complexes transcriptional repressor proteins per se do not exhibit enzymatic reactions to remodel chromatin structure, whereas histone modifying enzymes lack intrinsic DNA binding activity but have an ability to process post-translational modifications on histones. Thus, the mutual association between transcriptional repressors and histone modifying enzymes is essential to sculpt chromatin to favor transcriptional repression and down regulate gene expression. Additionally, co-repressors are integral components in the context of gene repression as they bridge the association of transcriptional repressors and histone modifying enzymes. In this review, we will discuss the roles of some of the major components of these repressor complex in the CNS as well as their cellular functions that may underlie fundamental behavior in animals. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neuroepigenetic Disorders'.
Long-term memory formation requires the coordinated regulation of gene expression. Until recently nucleosome remodeling, one of the major epigenetic mechanisms for controlling gene expression, had been largely unexplored in the field of neuroscience. Nucleosome remodeling is carried out by chromatin remodeling complexes (CRCs) that interact with DNA and histones to physically alter chromatin structure and ultimately regulate gene expression. Human exome sequencing and gene wide association studies have linked mutations in CRC subunits to intellectual disability disorders, autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia. However, how mutations in CRC subunits were related to human cognitive disorders was unknown. There appears to be both developmental and adult specific roles for the neuron specific CRC nBAF (neuronal Brg1/hBrm Associated Factor). nBAF regulates gene expression required for dendritic arborization during development, and in the adult, contributes to long-term potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity, and long-term memory. We propose that the nBAF complex is a novel epigenetic mechanism for regulating transcription required for long-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity and memory processes and that impaired nBAF function may result in human cognitive disorders. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neuroepigenetic Disorders'.

In the present study, we examine electrophysiological correlates of factors influencing an adjustment in cognitive control known as the bivalency effect. During task-switching, the occasional presence of bivalent stimuli in a block of univalent trials is enough to elicit a response slowing on all subsequent univalent trials. Bivalent stimuli can be congruent or incongruent with respect to the response afforded by the irrelevant stimulus feature. Here we show that the incongruent bivalency effect, the congruent bivalency effect, and an effect of a simple violation of expectancy are captured at a frontal ERP component (between 300 and 550ms) associated with ACC activity, and that the unexpectedness effect is distinguished from both congruent and incongruent bivalency effects at an earlier component (100-120ms) associated with the temporal parietal junction. We suggest that the frontal component reflects the dACC's role in predicting future cognitive load based on recent history. In contrast, the posterior component may index early visual feature extraction in response to bivalent stimuli that cue currently ongoing tasks; dACC activity may trigger the temporal parietal activity only when specific task cueing is involved and not for simple violations of expectancy.
Model-oriented therapies of aphasic word production have been shown to be effective, with item-specific therapy effects being larger than generalisation effects for untrained items. However, it remains unclear whether semantic versus phonological therapy lead to differential effects, depending on type of lexical impairment. Functional imaging studies revealed that mainly left-hemisphere, perisylvian brain areas were involved in successful therapy-induced recovery of aphasic word production. However, the neural underpinnings for model-oriented therapy effects have not received much attention yet. We aimed at identifying brain areas indicating (1) general therapy effects using a naming task measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in 14 patients before and after a 4-week naming therapy, which comprised increasing semantic and phonological cueing-hierarchies. We also intended to reveal differential effects (2) of training versus generalisation, (3) of therapy methods, and (4) of type of impairment as assessed by the connectionist Dell model. Training effects were stronger than generalisation effects, even though both were significant. Furthermore, significant impairment-specific therapy effects were observed for patients with phonological disorders (P-patients). (1) Left inferior frontal gyrus, pars opercularis (IFGoper), was a positive predictor of therapy gains while the right caudate was a negative predictor. Moreover, less activation decrease due to therapy in left-hemisphere temporo-parietal language areas was positively correlated with therapy gains. (2) Naming of trained compared to untrained words yielded less activation decrease in left superior temporal gyrus (STG) and precuneus, bilateral thalamus, and right caudate due to therapy. (3) Differential therapy effects could be detected in the right superior parietal lobule for the semantic method, and in regions involving bilateral anterior and mid cingulate, right precuneus, and left middle/superior frontal gyrus for the phonological method. (4) Impairment-specific changes of activation were found for P-patients in left IFGoper. Patients with semantic disorders (S-patients) relied on right frontal areas involving IFG, pars triangularis. After therapy, they revealed less activation decrease in areas involving left STG, caudate, paracentral lobule, and right rolandic operculum. Regarding naming performance, the present study corroborates previous findings on training and generalisation effects and reveals differential therapy effects for P-patients. Moreover, brain imaging results confirm a predominance of (1) general effects in the left brain hemisphere. (2) Brain regions related to visual strategy, monitoring/feedback, and articulatory patterns were characteristic for the familiar trained items. (3) Distinct regions associated with strategies, monitoring capacities, and linguistic information indicate the specific therapeutic influence on word retrieval. (4) While P-patients relied more on preserved phonological functions in the left hemisphere, S-patients revealed right-sided compensation of semantic processing as well as increased strategic efforts in both hemispheres.
The metaphor that individuals with episodic amnesia due to hippocampal damage are &quot;stuck in time&quot; persists in science, philosophy, and everyday life despite mounting evidence that episodic amnesia can spare many central aspects of temporal consciousness. Here we describe some of this evidence, focusing specifically on KC, one of the most thoroughly documented and severe cases of episodic amnesia on record. KC understands the concept of time, knows that it passes, and can orient himself with respect to his personal past and future. He expresses typical attitudes toward his past and future, and he is able to make future-regarding decisions. Theories claiming that the hippocampus plays an essential role in temporal consciousness need to be revised in light of these findings.
Recent dual-process models of the word frequency mirror effect place absolute familiarity, an items baseline familiarity at a given time point, as responsible for false alarm differences and recollection for hit rate differences between high and low frequency items. One of the earliest dual-process propositions, however, posits an additional relative familiarity mechanism which is sensitive to recent presentation but relative to the absolute familiarity of a particular item (Mandler, 1980). In this study, it was possible to map these three mechanisms onto known event-related potential (ERP) effects in an old/new recognition task with high and low frequency words. Contrasts between ERPs elicited by high and low frequency new items were assumed to index absolute familiarity, and the distribution of this effect from 300 to 600ms was topographically distinct from a temporally-overlapping midfrontally-distributed old/new effect which was larger for low than high frequency words, as would be expected from a relative familiarity mechanism. A later left parietal old/new effect, strongly linked to recollection, was only present for low frequency items. These frequency-sensitive amplitude differences for both old/new effects disappeared in a second recognition task in which old/new decisions were made under a time constraint, although the posterior absolute familiarity effect remained unaffected by the speeding of responses. The data support the assertion that three distinct recognition processes are affected by word frequency in recognition memory tasks, and the qualitatively distinct distributions associated with the two familiarity contrasts support the presence of two cognitively distinct familiarity mechanisms.
The development of the face-processing network has been examined with functional neuroimaging, but the effect of visual deprivation early in life on this network is not known. We examined this question in a group of young adults who had been born with dense, central cataracts in both eyes that blocked all visual input to the retina until the cataracts were removed during infancy. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine regions in the &quot;core&quot; and &quot;extended&quot; face networks as participants viewed faces and other objects, and performed a face discrimination task. This task required matching faces on the basis of facial features or on the spacing between the facial features. The Cataract group (a) had reduced discrimination performance on the Spacing task relative to Controls; (b) used the same brain regions as Controls when passively viewing faces or making judgments about faces, but showed reduced activation during passive viewing of faces, especially in extended face-network regions; and (c) unlike Controls, showed activation in face-network regions for objects. In addition, the functional connections of the fusiform gyri with the rest of the face network were altered, and these brain changes were related to Cataract participants' performance on the face discrimination task. These results provide evidence that early visual input is necessary to set up or preserve activity and functional connectivity in the face-processing network that will later mediate expert face processing.
Previous research suggests that when two streams of pitched tones are presented simultaneously, adults process each stream in a separate memory trace, as reflected by mismatch negativity (MMN), a component of the event-related potential (ERP). Furthermore, a superior encoding of the higher tone or voice in polyphonic sounds has been found for 7-month-old infants and both musician and non-musician adults in terms of a larger amplitude MMN in response to pitch deviant stimuli in the higher than the lower voice. These results, in conjunction with modeling work, suggest that the high voice superiority effect might originate in characteristics of the peripheral auditory system. If this is the case, the high voice superiority effect should be present in infants younger than 7 months. In the present study we tested 3-month-old infants as there is no evidence at this age of perceptual narrowing or specialization of musical processing according to the pitch or rhythmic structure of music experienced in the infants environment. We presented two simultaneous streams of tones (high and low) with 50% of trials modified by 1 semitone (up or down), either on the higher or the lower tone, leaving 50% standard trials. Results indicate that like the 7-month-olds, 3-month-old infants process each tone in a separate memory trace and show greater saliency for the higher tone. Although MMN was smaller and later in both voices for the group of sixteen 3-month-olds compared to the group of sixteen 7-month-olds, the size of the difference in MMN for the high compared to low voice was similar across ages. These results support the hypothesis of an innate peripheral origin of the high voice superiority effect.
Bilateral, high-frequency stimulation of the basal ganglia (STN-DBS) is in widespread use for the treatment of the motor symptoms of Parkinsons disease (PD). We present here the first psychophysical investigation of the effect of STN-DBS upon perceptual timing in the hundreds of milliseconds range, with both duration-based (absolute) and beat-based (relative) tasks; 13 patients with PD were assessed with their STN-DBS 'on', 'off', and then 'on' again. Paired parametric analyses revealed no statistically significant differences for any task according to DBS status. We demonstrate, from the examination of confidence intervals, that any functionally relevant effect of STN-DBS on relative perceptual timing is statistically unlikely. For absolute, duration-based timing, we demonstrate that the activation of STN-DBS may either worsen performance or have no effect, but that it is unlikely to lead to significant improvement. Although these results are negative they have important implications for our understanding of perceptual timing and its relationship to motor functions within the timing network of the brain. They imply that the mechanisms involved in the perceptual processing of temporal information are likely to be functionally independent from those that underpin movement. Further, they suggest that the connections between STN and the subtantia nigra and globus pallidus are unlikely to be critical to beat-based perceptual timing.





Second-generation antipsychotics are utilized extensively in the treatment of psychotic disorders and other psychiatric conditions, but the effects of these medications on human brain white matter are not well understood. We thus investigated the effects of second-generation antipsychotics on white matter integrity using tract-based spatial statistics in patients experiencing a first episode of psychosis with little or no prior antipsychotic exposure, and how potential changes were associated with metabolic side effects. Thirty-five (26 men/9 women) patients experiencing a first episode of psychosis received diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) exams, clinical assessments, and provided fasting blood samples at the onset of antipsychotic treatment, and then again after 12 weeks of treatment with either risperidone or aripiprazole in a double-blind randomized clinical trial. In addition, 35 (26 men/9 women) healthy volunteers received DTI exams at a baseline time point and then after 12 weeks. Patients demonstrated significant (p&lt;0.05; family-wise error corrected) fractional anisotropy reductions within the parietal and occipital white matter following antipsychotic treatment. Greater overall fractional anisotropy reduction was significantly correlated with greater increases in low-density lipoprotein. There were no significant fractional anisotropy increases among patients following treatment. Moreover, healthy volunteers did not demonstrate either significant increases or decreases in fractional anisotropy across a comparable 12-week interval. The use of antipsychotics may be associated with a subtle loss of white matter integrity that is related to greater side effects, thus raising potentially important considerations regarding risk/benefit in their usage. Limitations of the current study, however, include a prior history of substance use among patients and our inability to exclude the possibility of disease progression.
A new pharmacokinetic approach treating cocaine addiction involves rapidly metabolizing cocaine before it reaches brain reward centers using mutated human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) or cocaine hydrolase (CocH). Recent work has shown that helper-dependent adenoviral (hdAD) vector-mediated plasma CocH reduced the locomotor-activating effects of cocaine and prevented reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior up to 6 months in rats. The present study investigated whether hdAD-CocH could decrease ongoing intravenous cocaine (0.4 mg/kg) self-administration. The hdAD-CocH vector was injected into self-administering rats, and after accumulation of plasma CocH, there was a dramatic reduction in cocaine infusions earned under a fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement that lasted for the length of the study (&gt;2 months). Pretreatment with the selective BChE and CocH inhibitor iso-OMPA (1.5 mg/kg) restored cocaine intake; therefore, the decline in self-administration was likely due to rapid CocH-mediated cocaine metabolism. Direct measurements of cocaine levels in plasma and brain samples taken after the conclusion of behavioral studies provided strong support for this conclusion. Further, rats injected with hdAD-CocH did not experience a deficit in operant responding for drug reinforcement and self-administered methamphetamine (0.05 mg/kg) at control levels. Overall, these outcomes suggest that viral gene transfer can yield plasma CocH levels that effectively diminish long-term cocaine intake and may have potential treatment implications for cocaine-dependent individuals seeking to become and remain abstinent.
Convergent results from animal and human studies suggest that reducing serotonin neurotransmission promotes impulsive behavior. Here, serotonin depletion was induced by the dietary tryptophan depletion procedure (TD) in healthy volunteers to examine the role of serotonin in impulsive action and impulsive choice. We used a novel translational analog of a rodent 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT)-- the human 4-CSRTT--and a reward delay-discounting questionnaire to measure effects on these different forms of 'waiting impulsivity'. There was no effect of TD on impulsive choice as indexed by the reward delay-discounting questionnaire. However, TD significantly increased 4-CSRTT premature responses (or impulsive action), which is remarkably similar to the previous findings of effect of serotonin depletion on rodent 5-CSRTT performance. Moreover, the increased premature responding in TD correlated significantly with individual differences on the motor impulsivity subscale of the Barratt Impulsivity Scale. TD also improved the accuracy of performance and speeded responding, possibly indicating enhanced attention and reward processing. The results suggest: (i) the 4-CSRTT will be a valuable addition to the tests already available to measure impulsivity in humans in a direct translational analog of a test extensively used in rodents; (ii) TD in humans produces a qualitatively similar profile of effects to those in rodents (ie, enhancing premature responding), hence supporting the conclusion that TD in humans exerts at least some of its effects on central serotonin; and (iii) this manipulation of serotonin produces dissociable effects on different measures of impulsivity, suggesting considerable specificity in its modulatory role.
Recent attention has been focused on the long-term impact of cannabis exposure, for which experimental animal studies have validated causal relationships between neurobiological and behavioral alterations during the individual's lifetime. Here, we show that adolescent exposure to (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive component of cannabis, results in behavioral and neurobiological abnormalities in the subsequent generation of rats as a consequence of parental germline exposure to the drug. Adult F1 offspring that were themselves unexposed to THC displayed increased work effort to self-administer heroin, with enhanced stereotyped behaviors during the period of acute heroin withdrawal. On the molecular level, parental THC exposure was associated with changes in the mRNA expression of cannabinoid, dopamine, and glutamatergic receptor genes in the striatum, a key component of the neuronal circuitry mediating compulsive behaviors and reward sensitivity. Specifically, decreased mRNA and protein levels, as well as NMDA receptor binding were observed in the dorsal striatum of adult offspring as a consequence of germline THC exposure. Electrophysiologically, plasticity was altered at excitatory synapses of the striatal circuitry that is known to mediate compulsive and goal-directed behaviors. These findings demonstrate that parental history of germline THC exposure affects the molecular characteristics of the striatum, can impact offspring phenotype, and could possibly confer enhanced risk for psychiatric disorders in the subsequent generation.
Reward-seeking actions can be guided by external cues that signal reward availability. For instance, when confronted with a stimulus that signals sugar, rats will prefer an action that produces sugar over a second action that produces grain pellets. Action selection is also sensitive to changes in the incentive value of potential rewards. Thus, rats that have been prefed a large meal of sucrose will prefer a grain-seeking action to a sucrose-seeking action. The current study investigated the dependence of these different aspects of action selection on cholinergic transmission. Hungry rats were given differential training with two unique stimulus-outcome (S1-O1 and S2-O2) and action-outcome (A1-O1 and A2-O2) contingencies during separate training phases. Rats were then given a series of Pavlovian-to-instrumental transfer tests, an assay of cue-triggered responding. Before each test, rats were injected with scopolamine (0, 0.03, or 0.1 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, or mecamylamine (0, 0.75, or 2.25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), a nicotinic receptor antagonist. Although the reward-paired cues were capable of biasing action selection when rats were tested off-drug, both anticholinergic treatments were effective in disrupting this effect. During a subsequent round of outcome devaluation testing-used to assess the sensitivity of action selection to a change in reward value--we found no effect of either scopolamine or mecamylamine. These results reveal that cholinergic signaling at both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors mediates action selection based on Pavlovian reward expectations, but is not critical for flexibly selecting actions using current reward values.
Many children with childhood-onset obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) fail to respond adequately to standard therapies. Evidence from preclinical and clinical studies suggests that the glutamatergic neurotransmitter system might be an alternative treatment target. This study examined the efficacy of riluzole, a glutamatergic modulator, as an adjunctive therapy for children with treatment-resistant OCD. In a 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 60 treatment-resistant children and adolescents (mean age=14.5  2.4 years), with moderate to severe OCD (mean Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (CY-BOCS)=28.2  3.7), 17 of whom also had concomitant autism spectrum disorder, were randomized to receive riluzole (final dose of 100 mg/day) or placebo in addition to the existing treatment regimen. Fifty-nine subjects completed the randomized trial. Primary outcome measures were changes on the CY-BOCS, the Clinical Global Impressions Scale, and the Children's Global Assessment Scale. Riluzole was fairly well tolerated, although it was associated with one case of pancreatitis and five instances of slight increases in transaminases. All subjects showed significant reductions in CY-BOCS scores during treatment; however, there was no significant difference between placebo and riluzole on any of the primary or secondary outcome measures. The study failed to demonstrate superiority of riluzole over placebo as an adjunctive treatment for children with childhood-onset OCD. However, future studies may show benefits for less treatment-refractory children with fewer concomitant medications.
Safety signals (SSs) have been shown to reinforce instrumental avoidance behavior due to their ability to signal the absence of an aversive event; however, little is known of their neural mediation. This study investigated whether infusions of d-amphetamine in the nucleus accumbens (Nac), previously shown to potentiate responding for appetitive conditioned reinforcers (CRfs), also regulate avoidance responding for a SS. Rats were trained on a free-operant task in which lever-press responses avoided shock and were reinforced with an auditory SS. Rats were then cannulated in the Nac core (NacC) or shell (NacS) and infused with d-amphetamine and, in separate NacS groups, other drugs, before extinction sessions with the SS present or absent following responding. Selective effects of d-amphetamine were found in the NacS, but not in the NacC, when the SS was present in the session. A significant increase in response rate during the presentation of the SS reflected a disruption of its fear-inhibiting properties. In parallel, a decrease in avoidance response rate reflected the reduced influence of the SS as a CRf. Inactivation of the NacS reduced avoidance responding only when the SS was present in the session, whereas the D1-D2 DA receptor antagonist -flupenthixol reduced responding both before and during the SS regardless of the presence of the SS. Atomoxetine (ATO), a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, had no effect on responding. These results indicate a role for the NacS in the mediation of the conditioned reinforcing properties of a SS. These effects appear to be modulated by dopaminergic mechanisms but seem distinct from those previously reported with food-related CRfs.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) regulates physiological and behavioral responses to stress. Trauma in early life or adulthood is associated with increased CRF in the cerebrospinal fluid and heightened anxiety. Genetic variance in CRF receptors is linked to altered risk for stress disorders. Thus, both heritable differences and environmentally induced changes in CRF neurotransmission across the lifespan may modulate anxiety traits. To test the hypothesis that CRF hypersignaling is sufficient to modify anxiety-related phenotypes (avoidance, startle, and conditioned fear), we induced transient forebrain-specific overexpression of CRF (CRFOE) in mice (1) during development to model early-life stress, (2) in adulthood to model adult-onset stress, or (3) across the entire postnatal lifespan to model heritable increases in CRF signaling. The consequences of these manipulations on CRF peptide levels and behavioral responses were examined in adulthood. We found that transient CRFOE during development decreased startle habituation and prepulse inhibition, and increased avoidance (particularly in females) recapitulating the behavioral effects of lifetime CRFOE despite lower CRF peptide levels at testing. In contrast, CRFOE limited to adulthood reduced contextual fear learning in females and increased startle reactivity in males but did not change avoidance or startle plasticity. These findings suggest that forebrain CRFOE limited to development is sufficient to induce enduring alterations in startle plasticity and anxiety, while forebrain CRFOE during adulthood results in a different phenotype profile. These findings suggest that startle circuits are particularly sensitive to forebrain CRFOE, and that the impact of CRFOE may be dependent on the time of exposure.
Pharmacological treatments for depression have insufficient efficacy in 30-40% of patients and fail to reverse cognitive deficits. Erythropoietin (EPO) has neurotrophic actions and aids neurocognitive function. The aim of this exploratory study was to determine whether recombinant human EPO improves mood and memory in treatment-resistant depression. Forty treatment-resistant depressed unipolar patients with Hamilton Depression Rating Scale-17 (HDRS-17) score  17 were randomized to eight weekly EPO (Eprex; 40,000 IU) or saline infusions in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group design. Patients were assessed at baseline and at weeks 5, 9, and 14. Primary outcome was reduction in HDRS-17 score. Global assessment of function (GAF) was reported in addition. Secondary outcome was remission rate, and tertiary outcomes were changes in Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), Beck Depression Inventory-21 (BDI-21), and World Health Organization Quality of life-BREF (WHOQOL-BREF). Exploratory outcomes were depression and cognition composite scores. HDRS-17, GAF, and remission rates showed no effects of EPO over saline at week 9 (P-value  0.09). However, EPO improved BDI (P=0.02) and WHOQOL-BREF (P=0.01), and this was maintained at follow-up week 14 (P-values  0.04). EPO enhanced verbal recall (P=0.02) and recognition (P=0.03), which was sustained at follow-up (P-values  0.04). Exploratory analysis in patients fulfilling depression severity criteria at trial start revealed ameliorated HDRS-17 in EPO (N=14) vs saline groups (N=17), which was sustained at week 14 (P-values  0.05). Exploratory analysis in the complete cohort showed that EPO reduced depression composite at weeks 9 and 14 (P-values=0.02). The findings of this exploratory study highlight EPO as an interesting compound for treatment-resistant depression, which deserves further investigation.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) display a delayed onset of action of several weeks. Past work in naive rats showed that 5-HT receptor agonists had rapid effects on depression-related behaviors and on hippocampal neurogenesis. We decided to investigate whether 5-HT receptor stimulation was necessary for the effects of SSRIs in a mouse model of anxiety/depression, and whether hippocampal neurogenesis contributed to these effects. Using the mouse corticosterone model of anxiety/depression, we assessed whether chronic treatment with a 5-HT receptor agonist (RS67333, 1.5 mg/kg/day) had effects on anxiety- and depression-related behaviors, as well as on hippocampal neurogenesis in comparison with chronic fluoxetine treatment (18 mg/kg/day). Then, using our anxiety/depression model combined with ablation of hippocampal neurogenesis, we investigated whether neurogenesis was necessary for the behavioral effects of subchronic (7 days) or chronic (28 days) RS67333 treatment. We also assessed whether a 5-HT receptor antagonist (GR125487, 1mg/kg/day) could prevent the behavioral and neurogenic effects of fluoxetine. Chronic treatment with RS67333, similar to fluoxetine, induced anxiolytic/antidepressant-like activity and stimulated adult hippocampal neurogenesis, specifically facilitating maturation of newborn neurons. However, unlike fluoxetine, anxiolytic effects of RS67333 were already present after 7 days and did not require hippocampal neurogenesis. Chronic treatment with GR125487 prevented both anxiolytic/antidepressant-like and neurogenic effects of fluoxetine, indicating that 5-HT receptor activation is necessary for these effects of SSRIs. 5-HT receptor stimulation could represent an innovative and rapid onset therapeutic approach to treat depression with comorbid anxiety.
Mitochondria are the main source of energy for neurons and have a role in many vital neuronal functions. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been described in schizophrenia, and antipsychotics such as clozapine and olanzapine have been associated with differences in gene expression in mitochondria. We investigated the hypothesis that nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes, particularly those involved in oxidative phosphorylation or involved in oxidative stress, mitochondrial biogenesis, inflammation, and apoptosis, would be associated with antipsychotic-induced weight gain (AIWG). In total, we selected 28 genes and analyzed 60 SNPs (50 are functional), in 283 schizophrenia subjects, treated with atypical medications for up to 14 weeks. Association between AIWG (as measured by the % of weight gain from baseline) and SNP genotypes were tested using linear regression with treatment duration, baseline body weight, and medication type as covariates. We observed a significant association between rs6435326 in the NDUFS1 gene and AIWG in the subset of European patients (N=150, Pcorrected=0.02). The haplotype carrying the risk alleles of rs6435326 and two other SNPs (rs1053517 and rs1801318) in NDUFS1 was also nominally associated with percentage of weight gain (T-C-G vs A-T-A, P=0.005). In addition, stepwise linear regression was performed to select important variables predictive of the outcome, and a gene-gene interaction analysis was carried out. We observed a significant interaction between the TT risk genotype of rs6435326 in NDUFS1 and AG genotype of rs3762883 in COX18 (Pcorrected=0.001). A permutation-based test of all 60 SNPs jointly showed significant association with weight gain (P=0.02). Finally, our replication study of rs6435326, rs1053517 and rs1801318 in NDUFS1 using samples from the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE) showed that rs1801318 was significantly associated with AIWG (N=200, Pcorrected=0.04), and the three SNPs were collectively associated with AIWG (P=0.04). In conclusion, our findings suggest an association between NDUFS1 and AIWG in schizophrenia subjects. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to explore genetic variation in the mitochondrial genes in the context of AIWG.
Only a minority of patients with social anxiety disorder (SAD) has a robust therapeutic response to evidence-based serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment. To help improve the personalized medicine approach to psychiatric care, we evaluated several candidate genetic predictors of SSRI response in SAD. At the start of a randomized controlled trial (NCT00282828), 346 patients with SAD at three sites received protocol-driven, open-label treatment with sertraline, up to 200. mg/d over 10 weeks. Efficacy was determined using a continuous measure of outcome (Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS)) and dichotomous indicators of response (LSAS  50) and remission (LSAS  30). Predictors of efficacy were examined in multivariate regression models that included eight polymorphic variants in four candidate genes (four in RGS2, two in HTR2A, one in SLC6A2, and one in SLC6A4). Adjusting for genetic ancestral cluster and non-genetic predictors of response, all four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in RGS2 predicted change in LSAS over time, at study-wise significance (p=0.00833), with the minor allele associated with less improvement over time. After adjusting for genetic ancestral cluster and non-genetic predictors of remission, two of the four RGS2 SNPs predicted likelihood of remission at or just below study-wise significance (p=0.025): rs4606 (AOR=0.49 (95% CI=0.27-0.90), p=0.022) and rs1819741 (AOR=0.50 (95% CI=0.28-0.92), p=0.027). Variation in RGS2, a gene previously shown to be associated with social anxiety phenotypes and serotonergic neurotransmission, may be a biomarker of the likelihood of substantially benefiting from sertraline among patients with SAD.



Modification or suppression of reaches occurs in everyday life. We argue that a common modular architecture, based on similar neural structures and principles of kinematic and kinetic control, is used for both direct reaches and for their on-line corrections. When a reach is corrected, both the pattern of neural activity in parietal, premotor and motor cortex and the muscle synergies associated with the first movement can be smoothly blended or sharply substituted into those associated with the second one. Premotor cortex provides the early signaling for trajectory updating, while parietal and motor cortex provide the fine-grained encoding of hand kinematics necessary to reshape the motor plan. The cortical contribution to the inhibitory control of reaching is supported by the activity of a network of frontal areas. Premotor cortex has been proposed as a key structure for reaching suppression. Consistent with this, lesions in different nodes of this network result in different forms of motor deficits, such as Optic Ataxia in parietal patients, and commission errors in frontal ones.
Evidence from the various sources indicates alterations in 5-HT2C receptor functions in anxiety, depression and suicide, and other stress-related disorders treated with antidepressant drugs. Although the notion of a 5-HT2C receptor desensitization following antidepressant treatments is rather well anchored in the literature, this concept is mainly based on in vitro assays and/or behavioral assays (hypolocomotion, hyperthermia) that have poor relevance to anxio-depressive disorders. Our objective herein is to provide a comprehensive overview of the studies that have assessed the effects of antidepressant drugs on 5-HT2C receptors. Relevant molecular (second messengers, editing), neurochemical (receptor binding and mRNA levels), physiological (5-HT2C receptor-induced hyperthermia and hormone release), behavioral (5-HT2C receptor-induced changes in feeding, anxiety, defense and motor activity) data are summarized and discussed. Setting the record straight about drug-induced changes in 5-HT2C receptor function in specific brain regions should help to determine which pharmacotherapeutic strategy is best for affective and anxiety disorders.
Familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), despite representing a rare condition, is attracting a growing interest in the scientific community. Improved phenotyping of FAD cases may have a relevant impact both in clinical and research contexts. We performed a systematic review of studies describing the phenotypic features of FAD cases sustained by PSEN2 mutations, the less common cause of monogenic AD. Special attention was given to the clinical manifestations as well as to the main findings coming from the most commonly and widely adopted diagnostic procedures. Basing on the collected data, we also attempted to conduct a genotype-phenotype correlation analysis. Overall, the mutations involving the PSEN2 gene represent an extremely rare cause of FAD, having been reported to date in less than 200 cases. They are mainly associated, despite some peculiar and heterogeneous features, to a typical AD phenotype. Nevertheless, the frequent occurrence of psychotic symptoms may represent a potential distinctive element. The scarcity of available phenotypic descriptions strongly limits the implementation of genotype-phenotype correlations.
Though the cortical contributions to age-related declines in motor and cognitive performance are well-known, the potential contributions of the cerebellum are less clear. The diverse functions of the cerebellum make it an important structure to investigate in aging. Here, we review the extant literature on this topic. To date, there is evidence to indicate that there are morphological age differences in the cerebellum that are linked to motor and cognitive behavior. Cerebellar morphology is often as good as - or even better - at predicting performance than the prefrontal cortex. We also touch on the few studies using functional neuroimaging and connectivity analyses that further implicate the cerebellum in age-related performance declines. Importantly, we provide a conceptual framework for the cerebellum influencing age differences in performance, centered on the notion of degraded internal models. The evidence indicating that cerebellar age differences associate with performance highlights the need for additional work in this domain to further elucidate the role of the cerebellum in age differences in movement control and cognitive function.
An external auditory stimulus induces an auditory sensation which may lead to a conscious auditory perception. Although the sensory aspect is well known, it is still a question how an auditory stimulus results in an individual's conscious percept. To unravel the uncertainties concerning the neural correlates of a conscious auditory percept, event-related potentials may serve as a useful tool. In the current review we mainly wanted to shed light on the perceptual aspects of auditory processing and therefore we mainly focused on the auditory late-latency responses. Moreover, there is increasing evidence that perception is an active process in which the brain searches for the information it expects to be present, suggesting that auditory perception requires the presence of both bottom-up, i.e. sensory and top-down, i.e. prediction-driven processing. Therefore, the auditory evoked potentials will be interpreted in the context of the Bayesian brain model, in which the brain predicts which information it expects and when this will happen. The internal representation of the auditory environment will be verified by sensation samples of the environment (P50, N100). When this incoming information violates the expectation, it will induce the emission of a prediction error signal (Mismatch Negativity), activating higher-order neural networks and inducing the update of prior internal representations of the environment (P300).
Bipolar Disorder (BD) has been conceptualized as both a cyclic and a progressive disorder. Mechanisms involved in neuroprogression in BD remain largely unknown although several non-mutually exclusive models have been proposed as explanatory frameworks. In the present paper, we propose that the pathophysiological changes observed in BD (e.g. brain structural alterations, cognitive deficits, oxidative stress imbalance, amyloid metabolism, immunological deregulation, immunosenescence, neurotrophic deficiencies and telomere shortening) converge on a model of accelerated aging (AA). Aging can be understood as a multidimensional process involving physical,neuropsychological, and social changes, which can be highly variable between individuals. Determinants of successful aging (e.g environmental and genetic factors), may also confer differential vulnerability to components of BD pathophysiology and contribute to the clinical presentation of BD. Herein we discuss how the understanding of aging and senescence can contribute to the search for new and promising molecular targets to explain and ameliorate neuroprogression in BD. We also present the strengths and limitations of this concept.
According to appraisal theories fear and anxiety are elicited by the subjective evaluation of a situation or internal state as threatening. From this perspective anxiety disorders result from maladaptive, exaggerated threat appraisals that over-estimate the threatening consequences of often innocuous stimuli and situations. When these threat over-estimations occur at the level of conscious processing, they are referred to as catastrophizing and worrying. Both are major pathogenic processes in many clinical theories of anxiety. Until recently, little has been known about the neurobiological basis of normal and pathological conscious threat appraisal. Here, we review functional neuroimaging studies which draw a consistent picture of the rostral part of the dorsal anterior cingulate (dACC) and the adjacent dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) as the likely key neural substrate of conscious threat appraisal. Moreover, findings of hyper-activation of the rostral dACC/dmPFC during catastrophizing and worrying emphasize its relevance to aberrant neural processing in anxiety disorders. These insights open a new avenue for improving the prevention and treatment of mental disorders that involve pathological appraisal.
The complexity of neuronal networks cannot only be explained by neuronal activity so neurobiological research in the last decade has focused on different components of the central nervous system: the glia. Glial cells are fundamental elements for development and maintenance of physiological brain work. New data confirm that glia significantly influences neuronal communication through specific molecules, named &quot;gliotransmitters&quot;, and their related receptors. This new approach to the traditional model of the way synapses work is also supported by changes occurring in pathological conditions, such as neurodegenerative diseases or toxic/traumatic injury to nervous system. Experimental models have revealed that glial cells are the starting point of damage progression that subsequently involves neurons. The &quot;bedside to bench&quot; approach has demonstrated that clinical phenotypes are strictly related to neuronal death, however it is conceivable that the disease begins earlier, years before clinical onset. This temporal gap is necessary to determine complex changes in the neuro-glial network organization and produce a &quot;maladaptive plasticity&quot;. We review the function of glial cells in health and disease, pointing the putative mechanisms of maladaptive plasticity, suggesting that glial cells may represent a fascinating therapeutic target to prevent irreversible neuronal cell death.

Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) are widely prescribed for the medication of systemic hypertension and congestive heart failure. It has been reported that ARBs can reduce the risk for the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and have beneficial effects on dementia. Neurotoxic amyloid -protein (A) is believed to play a causative role in the development of AD. However, whether ARBs regulate A generation remains largely unknown. Here, we studied the effect of ARBs on A generation and found that telmisartan significantly increased A40 and A42 generation, but decreased the A42/A40 ratio. However, losartan, valsartan and candesartan did not increase A generation, while olmesartan significantly increased A42 generation. We also found that telmisartan increased the A generation through angiotensin type 1a receptor (AT1a) and the receptor-related phosphotidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K) pathway. Our findings revealed the different effects of ARBs on A generation and provide new evidence for the relationship between antihypertensive treatment and AD pathogenesis.
Psychostimulants containing methylphenidate (MPH) are increasingly being used both on and off-label to enhance learning and memory. Still, almost no studies have investigated MPH's ability to specifically improve spatial or long-term memory. Here we examined the effect of training with 1 or 10mg/kg MPH on hidden platform learning in the Morris water maze. 10mg/kg MPH improved memory acquisition and retention, while 1mg/kg MPH improved memory retention. Taken together with prior evidence that low, clinically relevant, doses of MPH (0.01-1mg/kg MPH) enhance fear memory we conclude that MPH broadly enhances memory.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a known algogen that causes acute pain and sensitization in humans and spontaneous nociceptive behaviors when injected into the periphery in rats. This study sought to examine the effect of ET-1 exposure in the neonatal period on subsequent contralateral capsaicin-induced secondary mechanical hyperalgesia. ET-1 or saline was injected into the left plantar hindpaw on postnatal day 7 (P7). On postnatal day 11 (P11), capsaicin cream or control lotion was applied to the right dorsum hind paw and mechanical paw withdrawal thresholds were measured in the plantar hind paw. In saline control males, P11 administration of capsaicin produced a secondary mechanical hyperalgesia that was still present at 2h. Neonatal priming with ET-1 did not alter the magnitude or the duration of secondary mechanical hyperalgesia in males. In contrast, in control females, P11 administration of capsaicin produced less than 40 min of mechanical hyperalgesia. Neonatal priming with ET-1 prolonged the duration of secondary mechanical hyperalgesia in females. Priming with ET-1 on P7 led to a significant increase in capsaicin-induced Fos expression in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord in both males and females compared to controls (p&lt;0.001). These findings further suggest that pain in early life may alter future responses to painful stimuli at both the behavioral and neuronal level.




Animal models of motor dysfunction constitute the basis for the screening of new drugs with potential efficacy in diseases characterized by motor impairment, such as Parkinson's Disease (PD). Taking adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists as an example of a new class of drugs for PD, the review will examine the most utilized rodent models of motor impairment and the results reported in the literature with this class of drugs. The results obtained so far in rodent models of PD suggested that A(2A) receptor antagonists might have symptomatic therapeutic efficacy in PD. They may ameliorate initiation of movement, gait and muscle rigidity, sensorimotor integration deficits, and tremor. Moreover, A(2A) receptor antagonists when administered with a low sub-threshold dose of L-DOPA potentiated its efficacy. However, the clinical trials so far performed have evaluated their efficacy in the &quot;ON/OFF&quot; of PD patients with motor complications, showing a limited efficacy of this class of drug. Therefore, on one hand, animal models of PD might have a limited validity; on the other hand, clinical trials should explore the efficacy of A(2A) receptor antagonists on a broader range of parkinsonian conditions.


: Objective: Multiple twin studies have demonstrated the heritability of anthropometric and metabolic traits. However, assessment of body composition parameters by bioimpedance analysis (BIA) has not been routinely performed in this setting.Design: A cross-sectional study.Setting: Study subjects were recruited and assessed at twin festivals or at major university hospitals in Italy, Hungary, and the United States to estimate the influence of genetic and environmental components on body composition parameters in a large, wide age range, international twin cohort by using bioelectrical impedance analysis.Subjects: 380 adult twin pairs (230 monozygotic and 150 dizygotic pairs; male:female ratio, 68:32; age years 49.1  15.4; mean  standard deviation; age range 18-82) were included in the analysis.Results: Heritability was calculated for weight (82%; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 78-85), waist and hip circumferences (74%; 95%CI: 68-79), body fat percentage (74%; 95%CI: 69-79), fat-free mass (74%; 95%CI: 69-79) and body mass index (79%; 95%CI: 74-83). The completely environmental model showed no impact of shared environmental effects on the variance, while unshared environmental effects were estimated as between 18% and 26%.Conclusions: BIA findings provide additional evidence to the heritability of anthropometric attributes related to obesity and indicate the practical value of this simple method in supporting efforts to prevent obesity-related adverse health events.


MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs of 20-25 nucleotides in length that are capable of modulating gene expression post-transcriptionally. The potential roles of miRNAs in the tumorigenesis of glioblastoma (GBM) have been under intensive studies in the past few years. In the present study, we found a positive correlation between the levels of miR-127-3p and the cell migration and invasion abilities in several human GBM cell lines. We showed that miR-127-3p promoted cell migration and invasion of GBM cells using in vitro cell lines and in vivo mouse models. We identified SEPT7, a known tumor-suppressor gene that has been reported to suppress GBM cell migration and invasion, as a direct target of miR-127-3p. SEPT7 was able to partially abrogate the effect of miR-127-3p on cell migration and invasion. In addition, microarray analysis revealed that miR-127-3p regulated a number of migration and invasion-related genes. Finally, we verified that miR-127-3p affected the remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton mediated by SEPT7 in GBM cells.




Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a highly invasive cancer with poor prognosis. One of the recurring themes of NPC biology and treatments is DNA damage. Epstein-Barr virus infection, which is generally accepted as a key etiological factor for NPC, triggers DNA damage responses. In normal cells, DNA damage checkpoints are able to prevent cell cycle progression following DNA damage and are critical for maintaining genome stability. Main features of the checkpoints include activation of ATM and ATR by sensors of DNA damage, which activates effector kinases CHK1 and CHK2; they in turn targets the CDC25/WEE1-cyclin B1-CDK1 axis to cause G(2) arrest, or the p53-p21(CIP1/WAF1) and pRb pathways to cause G(1) arrest. Significantly, these checkpoints are typically disrupted in NPC cells. While mutations are relatively rare, mechanisms including promoter modifications, miRNAs, and actions of Epstein-Barr virus-encoded proteins such as EBNA3C and LMP1 have been described. Paradoxically, radiation-mediated DNA damage remains the primary treatment of NPC. How dysregulation of the DNA damage checkpoints contribute to NPC tumorigenesis and responses to treatment remain poorly understood. In this review, the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the various DNA damage checkpoints and what is known about them in NPC are discussed.


There is increasing evidence relating thalamic changes to the generation and/or maintenance of neuropathic pain. We have recently reported that neuropathic orofacial pain is associated with altered thalamic anatomy, biochemistry, and activity, which may result in disturbed thalamocortical oscillatory circuits. Despite this evidence, it is possible that these thalamic changes are not responsible for the presence of pain per se, but result as a consequence of the injury. To clarify this subject, we compared brain activity and biochemistry in 12 people with below-level neuropathic pain after complete thoracic spinal cord injury with 11 people with similar injuries and no neuropathic pain and 21 age- and gender-matched healthy control subjects. Quantitative arterial spinal labelling was used to measure thalamic activity, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to determine changes in neuronal variability quantifying N-acetylaspartate and alterations in inhibitory function quantifying gamma amino butyric acid. This study revealed that the presence of neuropathic pain is associated with significant changes in thalamic biochemistry and neuronal activity. More specifically, the presence of neuropathic pain after spinal cord injury is associated with significant reductions in thalamic N-acetylaspartate, gamma amino butyric acid content, and blood flow in the region of the thalamic reticular nucleus. Spinal cord injury on its own did not account for these changes. These findings support the hypothesis that neuropathic pain is associated with altered thalamic structure and function, which may disturb central processing and play a key role in the experience of neuropathic pain.
Pain is commonly assessed by subjective reports on rating scales. However, in many experimental and clinical settings, an additional, objective indicator of pain is desirable. In order to identify an objective, parametric signature of pain intensity that is predictive at the individual stimulus level across subjects, we recorded skin conductance and pupil diameter responses to heat pain stimuli of different durations and temperatures in 34 healthy subjects. The temporal profiles of trial-wise physiological responses were characterized by component scores obtained from principal component analysis. These component scores were then used as predictors in a linear regression analysis, resulting in accurate pain predictions for individual trials. Using the temporal information encoded in the principal component scores explained the data better than prediction by a single summary statistic (i.e., maximum amplitude). These results indicate that perceived pain is best reflected by the temporal dynamics of autonomic responses. Application of the regression model to an independent data set of 20 subjects resulted in a very good prediction of the pain ratings demonstrating the generalizability of the identified temporal pattern. Utilizing the readily available temporal information from skin conductance and pupil diameter responses thus allows parametric prediction of pain in human subjects.
Sex differences in response to experimental pain are commonly reported in systematic reviews in the adult literature. The objective of the present research was to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of sex differences in healthy children's responses to experimental pain (e.g., cold pressor, heat pain, pressure pain) and, where possible, to conduct analyses separately for children and adolescents. A search was conducted of electronic databases for published papers in English of empirical research using experimental pain tasks to examine pain-related outcomes in healthy boys and girls between 0 and 18 years of age. Eighty articles were eligible for inclusion and were coded to extract information relevant to sex differences. The systematic review indicated that, across different experimental pain tasks, the majority of studies reported no significant differences between boys and girls on pain-related outcomes. However, the meta-analysis of available combined data found that girls reported significantly higher cold pressor pain intensity compared to boys in studies where the mean age of participants was greater than 12 years. Additionally, a meta-analysis of heat pain found that boys had significantly higher tolerance than girls overall, and boys had significantly higher heat pain threshold than girls in studies where the mean age of participants was 12 years or younger. These findings suggest that developmental stage may be relevant for understanding sex differences in pain.
This study investigated change in the distribution of lumbar erector spinae muscle activity and pressure pain sensitivity across the low back in individuals with low back pain (LBP) and healthy controls. Surface electromyographic (EMG) signals were recorded from multiple locations over the lumbar erector spinae muscle with a 135 grid of electrodes from 19 people with chronic nonspecific LBP and 17 control subjects as they performed a repetitive lifting task. The EMG root mean square (RMS) was computed for each location of the grid to form a map of the EMG amplitude distribution. Pressure pain thresholds (PPT) were recorded before and after the lifting task over a similar area of the back. For the control subjects, the EMG RMS progressively increased more in the caudal region of the lumbar erector spinae during the repetitive task, resulting in a shift in the distribution of muscle activity. In contrast, the distribution of muscle activity remained unaltered in the LBP group despite an overall increase in EMG amplitude. PPT was lower in the LBP group after completion of the repetitive task compared to baseline (average across all locations: pre: 268.0165.9 kPa; post: 242.0166.7 kPa), whereas no change in PPT over time was observed for the control group (320.1162.1 kPa; post: 322.0179.5 kPa). The results demonstrate that LBP alters the normal adaptation of lumbar erector spinae muscle activity to exercise, which occurs in the presence of exercise-induced hyperalgesia. Reduced variability of muscle activity may have important implications for the provocation and recurrence of LBP due to repetitive tasks.
Nocebo and placebo effects have been found to modulate several neurochemical systems, such as cholecystokinin, endogenous opioids, and endocannabinoids. Here we show that also the cyclooxygenase-prostaglandins pathway can be modulated by both nocebos and placebos. In fact, we found that negative expectation, the crucial element of the nocebo effect, about headache pain led to the enhancement of the cyclooxygenase-prostaglandins pathway, which, in turn, induced pain worsening. As an experimental model, we studied hypobaric hypoxia headache at high altitude in 2 populations of subjects. Whereas the experimental nocebo group received negative information by a single individual who was informed about the risk of headache, the control group did not know about the possible occurrence of headache. We found a significant increase in headache and salivary prostaglandins and thromboxane in the nocebo group compared to the control group, suggesting that negative expectations enhance cyclooxygenase activity. In addition, placebo administration to headache sufferers at high altitude inhibited the nocebo-related component of pain and prostaglandins synthesis, which indicates that the cyclooxygenase pathway can be modulated by both nocebos and placebos. Our results show for the first time how nocebos and placebos affect the synthesis of prostaglandins, which represent an important target of analgesic drugs, thus emphasizing once again the notion that placebos and drugs may use common biochemical pathways.
Mirror-image pain is characterized by mechanical hypersensitivity on the uninjured mirror-image side. Recent reports favor central mechanisms, but whether peripheral mechanisms are involved remains unclear. We used unilateral spinal nerve ligation (SNL) to induce mirror-image pain in rats. On the mirror-image (contralateral) side, we found that satellite glia in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) were activated, whereas macrophages/Schwann cells in the DRG and astrocytes/oligodendrocytes/microglia in the dorsal spinal cord were not. Subsequently, an increase in nerve growth factor (NGF) was detected in the contralateral DRG, and NGF immunoreactivity was concentrated in activated satellite glia. These phenomena were abolished if fluorocitrate (a glial inhibitor) was intrathecally injected before SNL. Electrophysiological recordings in cultured small DRG neurons showed that exogenous NGF enhanced nociceptor excitability. Intrathecal injection of NGF into naive rats induced long-lasting mechanical hypersensitivity, similar to SNL-evoked mirror-image pain. Anti-NGF effectively relieved SNL-evoked mirror-image pain. In the contralateral DRG, the SNL-evoked tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) increase, which started later than in the ipsilateral DRG and cerebrospinal fluid, occurred earlier than satellite glial activation and the NGF increase. Intrathecal injection of TNF- into naive rats not only activated satellite glia to produce extra NGF in the DRG but also evoked mechanical hypersensitivity, which could be attenuated by anti-NGF injection. These results suggest that after SNL, satellite glia in the contralateral DRG are activated by TNF- that diffuses from the injured side via cerebrospinal fluid, which then activates satellite glia to produce extra NGF to enhance nociceptor excitability, which induces mirror-image pain.







The majority of infants born very preterm (24-32 wk gestational age) now survive; however, long-term neurodevelopmental and behavioral problems remain a concern. As part of their neonatal care, very preterm infants undergo repeated painful procedures during a period of rapid brain development and programming of stress systems. Infants born this early have the nociceptive circuitry required to perceive pain, however, their sensory systems are functionally immature. An imbalance of excitatory vs. inhibitory processes leads to increased nociceptive signaling in the central nervous system. Specific cell populations in the central nervous system of preterm neonates are particularly vulnerable to excitoxicity, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Neonatal rat models have demonstrated that persistent or repeated pain increases apoptosis of neurons, and neonatal pain and stress lead to anxiety-like behaviors during adulthood. In humans, greater exposure to neonatal pain-related stress has been associated with altered brain microstructure and stress hormone levels, as well as with poorer cognitive, motor, and behavioral neurodevelopment in infants and children born very preterm. Therefore, it is important that pain-related stress in preterm neonates is accurately identified, appropriately managed, and that pain management strategies are evaluated for protective or adverse effects in the long term.


As part of our continuing studies on the structure-activity relationships of cyclic pentapeptides based on the structure of endomorphin-2, we report here the synthesis and biological activities of a new series of analogs incorporating 2', 3' or 4'-methylphenylalanine (MePhe) residues into positions 3 or 4 of the parent cyclopeptide, Dmt-c[d-Lys-Phe-Phe-Asp]NH2 (Dmt=2',6'-dimethyltyrosine). Analogs with MePhe in position 4 showed a row of magnitude increased -opioid receptor (MOP receptor) affinity as compared with a parent compound. The in vitro potencies of the new analogs were determined in calcium mobilization assay performed in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells expressing human recombinant opioid receptors and chimeric G proteins. All analogs were strong / (MOP/KOP) receptor agonists and weak  (DOP) receptor agonists. In the in vivo hot-plate test in mice, the MePhe(4)-modified peptides showed remarkable antinociceptive activity after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration which was most likely due to the concomitant activation of more than one opioid receptor type.
Substance P and neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor antagonists respectively induce proliferation and growth inhibition in human melanoma cell lines. The presence of NK-1 receptors in human melanoma cell lines and samples has been reported, but the presence of NK-1 receptors has not been demonstrated in uveal melanomas. It is known that melanoma express the tachykinin 1 receptor (TAC1R) gene. This gene is overexpressed in several human cancer cell lines, but such overexpression is currently unknown in human malignant melanoma cell lines (COLO 858, MEL HO, COLO 679). In this study, we attempt to demonstrate the overexpression of the TAC1R gene in such cells. We performed an in vitro study by real-time quantitative RT-PCR for TAC1R and found that the NK-1 receptor was overexpressed in the three human melanoma cell lines studied. Using a knockdown method, we demonstrate that the NK-1 receptor is involved in the viability of the COLO 858 melanoma cell line. Immunohistochemistry was also used to demonstrate NK-1 receptors in uveal melanoma samples. We observed that NK-1 receptors were present in the 21/21 uveal melanomas. In addition, cyclosporin A inhibited the growth of the three melanoma cell lines studied in a dose-dependent manner, and after the administration of this immunosuppresive drug apoptosis was observed. This indicates at least that the antitumor action of cyclosporin A is mediated by the NK-1 receptor. Our findings suggest that the NK-1 receptor could be a promising target in the treatment of human melanomas.


Several epidemiological studies show an increase in cannabis use among adolescents, especially in Morocco for being one of the major producers in the world. The neurobiological consequences of chronic cannabis use are still poorly understood. In addition, brain plasticity linked to ontogeny portrays adolescence as a period of vulnerability to the deleterious effects of drugs. The aim of this study was to investigate the behavioral neurogenic effects of chronic exposure to the cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 during adolescence, by evaluating the emotional and cognitive performances, and the consequences on neurogenesis along the dorso-ventral axis of the hippocampus in adult rats. WIN55,212 was administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) once daily for 20 days to adolescent (27-30 PND) and adult Wistar rats (54-57 PND) at the dose of 1mg/kg. Following a 20 day washout period, emotional and cognitive functions were assessed by the Morris water maze test and the two-way active avoidance test. Twelve hours after, brains were removed and hippocampal neurogenesis was assessed using the doublecortin (DCX) as a marker for cell proliferation. Our results showed that chronic WIN55,212-2 treatment significantly increased thigmotaxis early in the training process whatever the age of treatment, induced spatial learning and memory deficits in adolescent but not adult rats in the Morris water maze test, while it had no significant effect in the active avoidance test during multitrial training in the shuttle box. In addition, the cognitive deficits assessed in adolescent rats were positively correlated to a decrease in the number of newly generated neurons in dorsal hippocampus. These data suggest that long term exposure to cannabinoids may affect more potently spatial learning and memory in adolescent compared to adult rats via a negative action on hippocampal plasticity.
The results of studies using systemic or central applications of cholinergic drugs suggest that acetylcholine makes important contributions to the neurochemical control of male- and female-typical reproductive behaviors. In males, cholinergic control seems largely specific to some elements or aspects of copulatory behavior that can vary significantly across species. Synapses in or near the medial preoptic area represent part of this mechanism, but the entire system appears to extend more widely, perhaps especially to one or more structures flanking some part of the lateral ventricle. In females, the lordosis response that essentially defines sexual receptivity is clearly responsive to cholinergic drugs. The same seems likely to be true of other elements of female sexual behavior, but additional studies will be needed to confirm this. Changes in cholinergic activity may help to mediate estrogenic effects on female sexual behavior. However, estrogen exposure can increase or decrease cholinergic effects, suggesting a relationship that is complex and requires further analysis. Also presently unclear is the localization of the cholinergic effects on female sexual responses. Though periventricular sites again have been implicated, their identity is presently unknown. This review discusses these and other aspects of the central cholinergic systems affecting male and female sexual behaviors.
Early exposure to a traumatic event may produce lasting effects throughout the lifespan. Traumatic stress during adolescence may deliver a distinct developmental insult compared with more-often studied neonatal or juvenile traumatic stress paradigms. The present study describes the lasting effects of adolescent traumatic stress upon adulthood fear conditioning. Adolescent rats were exposed to a traumatic stressor (underwater trauma, UWT), then underwent fear conditioning during adulthood. Fear extinction was tested over five conditioned suppression extinction sessions three weeks later. The efficacies of two potential extinction-enhancing compounds, endocannabinoid reuptake inhibitor AM404 (10mg/kg) and M1 muscarinic positive allosteric modulator BQCA (10mg/kg), were also assessed. Finally, post-extinction fear responses were examined using a fear cue (light) as a prepulse stimulus. Rats traumatically stressed during adolescence showed blunted conditioned suppression on day 1 of extinction training, and AM404 reversed this effect. Post-extinction startle testing showed that fear conditioning eliminates prepulse inhibition to the light cue. Startle potentiation was observed only in rats without adolescent UWT exposure. AM404 and BQCA both ameliorated this startle potentiation, while BQCA increased startle in the UWT group. These results suggest that exposure to a traumatic stressor during adolescence alters developmental outcomes related to stress response and fear extinction compared to rats without adolescent traumatic stress exposure, blunting the adulthood fear response and reducing residual post-extinction fear expression. Efficacy of pharmacological interventions may also vary as a factor of developmental traumatic stress exposure.
Oxidative stress is a common hallmark of neuronal cell death associated with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, as well as brain stroke/ischemia and traumatic brain injury. Increased accumulation of reactive species of both oxygen (ROS) and nitrogen (RNS) has been implicated in mitochondrial dysfunction, energy impairment, alterations in metal homeostasis and accumulation of aggregated proteins observed in neurodegenerative disorders, which lead to the activation/modulation of cell death mechanisms that include apoptotic, necrotic and autophagic pathways. Thus, the design of novel antioxidant strategies to selectively target oxidative stress and redox imbalance might represent important therapeutic approaches against neurological disorders. This work reviews the evidence demonstrating the ability of genetically encoded antioxidant systems to selectively counteract neuronal cell loss in neurodegenerative diseases and ischemic brain damage. Because gene therapy approaches to treat inherited and acquired disorders offer many unique advantages over conventional therapeutic approaches, we discussed basic research/clinical evidence and the potential of virus-mediated gene delivery techniques for antioxidant gene therapy.
Introduction: Major depression is a worldwide problem and often remains undetected and untreated. Given the low rates of detection plus the need to intervene in a short time, it is important to identify factors which are likely to improve treatment outcomes. Methods: STIMA-D was designed to provide the profile of patients with major depression in Italy (focusing on pathway to care, patient characteristics, drug therapy and treatment outcomes). The patients enrolled (M/F, aged between 18 and 65) experienced single/multiple episodes of major depression (DSM-IV-TR). Patients with lifetime or current bipolar syndrome or other mental disorders were excluded. Results: 44 of the 50 invited centers sent data concerning 1140 patients. The majority of patients were women. Among working individuals, 52.5% of them were absent from work due to depression in the previous 6 months. Recurrent episodes of major depression were very common and were associated with persistence of residual post-episodic symptoms, a family history of mood disorders and presence of anxiety. 59.6% of the patients were treated with monotherapy (SSRI or SNRI), while 19.2% of them were treated with SSRI plus SNRI. Only the 25.5% on monotherapy had a complete response compared to 12.4% of patients on dual therapy. Discussion: Poor outcomes in major depression have profound implications on patients' quality of life and cost burden. New pharmacological approaches with novel modes of action are therefore urgently needed.
Introduction: Prior clozapine studies indicated no effects, mild inhibition or induction of valproic acid (VPA) on clozapine metabolism. The hypotheses that (i) VPA is a net inducer of clozapine metabolism, and (ii) smoking modifies this inductive effect were tested in a therapeutic drug monitoring study. Methods: After excluding strong inhibitors and inducers, 353 steady-state total clozapine (clozapine plus norclozapine) concentrations provided by 151 patients were analyzed using a random intercept linear model. Results: VPA appeared to be an inducer of clozapine metabolism since total plasma clozapine concentrations in subjects taking VPA were significantly lower (27% lower; 95% confidence interval, 14-39%) after controlling for confounding variables including smoking (35% lower, 28-56%). Discussion: Prospective studies are needed to definitively establish that VPA may (i) be an inducer of clozapine metabolism when induction prevails over competitive inhibition, and (ii) be an inducer even in smokers who are under the influence of smoking inductive effects on clozapine metabolism.



Chronic spinal pain (CSP) is a severely disabling disorder, including nontraumatic chronic low back and neck pain, failed back surgery, and chronic whiplash-associated disorders. Much of the current therapy is focused on input mechanisms (treating peripheral elements such as muscles and joints) and output mechanisms (addressing motor control), while there is less attention to processing (central) mechanisms. In addition to the compelling evidence for impaired motor control of spinal muscles in patients with CSP, there is increasing evidence that central mechanisms (ie, hyperexcitability of the central nervous system and brain abnormalities) play a role in CSP. Hence, treatments for CSP should address not only peripheral dysfunctions but also the brain. Therefore, a modern neuroscience approach, comprising therapeutic pain neuroscience education followed by cognition-targeted motor control training, is proposed. This perspective article explains why and how such an approach to CSP can be applied in physical therapist practice.

Motherwort (Leonurus cardiaca) possesses antibacterial, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and analgesic activities, and is used as a complementary remedy to improve heart function and blood circulation. Since cardiovascular diseases are often associated with an alteration of mitochondria, the main producers of ATP in cardiac muscle cells, the aim of our work was to determine bioactive constituents present in motherwort aerial parts extract in ethanol and investigate their effects on the functions of cardiac mitochondria. Quantitative determination of polyphenols in L.cardiaca herb extract was performed by HPLC. Mitochondrial respiration rates were evaluated using a Clark-type oxygen electrode. Mitochondrial ROS generation was determined fluorimetrically with Amplex Red and horseradish peroxidase. The results showed that constituents (chlorogenic acid, orientin, quercetin, hyperoside, and rutin) of L.cardiaca herb extract uncouple (by 20-90%) mitochondrial oxidation from phosphorylation, partially inhibit (by ~40%) the mitochondrial respiratory chain in cases of pyruvate and malate as well as succinate oxidation, and effectively attenuate the generation of free radicals in mitochondria. Since partial uncoupling of mitochondria, respiratory inhibition, and decreased ROS production are proposed as possible mechanisms of cardioprotection, our results imply that L. cardiaca herb extract could be a useful remedy to protect cardiac muscles from the effects of pathogenic processes.
Metabolite concentrations reflect the physiological states of tissues and cells. However, the role of metabolic changes in species evolution is currently unknown. Here, we present a study of metabolome evolution conducted in three brain regions and two non-neural tissues from humans, chimpanzees, macaque monkeys, and mice based on over 10,000 hydrophilic compounds. While chimpanzee, macaque, and mouse metabolomes diverge following the genetic distances among species, we detect remarkable acceleration of metabolome evolution in human prefrontal cortex and skeletal muscle affecting neural and energy metabolism pathways. These metabolic changes could not be attributed to environmental conditions and were confirmed against the expression of their corresponding enzymes. We further conducted muscle strength tests in humans, chimpanzees, and macaques. The results suggest that, while humans are characterized by superior cognition, their muscular performance might be markedly inferior to that of chimpanzees and macaque monkeys.
Neuronal computations strongly depend on inhibitory interactions. One such example occurs at the first retinal synapse, where horizontal cells inhibit photoreceptors. This interaction generates the center/surround organization of bipolar cell receptive fields and is crucial for contrast enhancement. Despite its essential role in vision, the underlying synaptic mechanism has puzzled the neuroscience community for decades. Two competing hypotheses are currently considered: an ephaptic and a proton-mediated mechanism. Here we show that horizontal cells feed back to photoreceptors via an unexpected synthesis of the two. The first one is a very fast ephaptic mechanism that has no synaptic delay, making it one of the fastest inhibitory synapses known. The second one is a relatively slow (200 ms), highly intriguing mechanism. It depends on ATP release via Pannexin 1 channels located on horizontal cell dendrites invaginating the cone synaptic terminal. The ecto-ATPase NTPDase1 hydrolyses extracellular ATP to AMP, phosphate groups, and protons. The phosphate groups and protons form a pH buffer with a pKa of 7.2, which keeps the pH in the synaptic cleft relatively acidic. This inhibits the cone Ca2+ channels and consequently reduces the glutamate release by the cones. When horizontal cells hyperpolarize, the pannexin 1 channels decrease their conductance, the ATP release decreases, and the formation of the pH buffer reduces. The resulting alkalization in the synaptic cleft consequently increases cone glutamate release. Surprisingly, the hydrolysis of ATP instead of ATP itself mediates the synaptic modulation. Our results not only solve longstanding issues regarding horizontal cell to photoreceptor feedback, they also demonstrate a new form of synaptic modulation. Because pannexin 1 channels and ecto-ATPases are strongly expressed in the nervous system and pannexin 1 function is implicated in synaptic plasticity, we anticipate that this novel form of synaptic modulation may be a widespread phenomenon.
Optimists hold positive a priori beliefs about the future. In Bayesian statistical theory, a priori beliefs can be overcome by experience. However, optimistic beliefs can at times appear surprisingly resistant to evidence, suggesting that optimism might also influence how new information is selected and learned. Here, we use a novel Pavlovian conditioning task, embedded in a normative framework, to directly assess how trait optimism, as classically measured using self-report questionnaires, influences choices between visual targets, by learning about their association with reward progresses. We find that trait optimism relates to an a priori belief about the likelihood of rewards, but not losses, in our task. Critically, this positive belief behaves like a probabilistic prior, i.e. its influence reduces with increasing experience. Contrary to findings in the literature related to unrealistic optimism and self-beliefs, it does not appear to influence the iterative learning process directly.
In order to study the ability of coupled neural oscillators to synchronize in the presence of intrinsic as opposed to synaptic noise, we constructed hybrid circuits consisting of one biological and one computational model neuron with reciprocal synaptic inhibition using the dynamic clamp. Uncoupled, both neurons fired periodic trains of action potentials. Most coupled circuits exhibited qualitative changes between one-to-one phase-locking with fairly constant phasic relationships and phase slipping with a constant progression in the phasic relationships across cycles. The phase resetting curve (PRC) and intrinsic periods were measured for both neurons, and used to construct a map of the firing intervals for both the coupled and externally forced (PRC measurement) conditions. For the coupled network, a stable fixed point of the map predicted phase locking, and its absence produced phase slipping. Repetitive application of the map was used to calibrate different noise models to simultaneously fit the noise level in the measurement of the PRC and the dynamics of the hybrid circuit experiments. Only a noise model that added history-dependent variability to the intrinsic period could fit both data sets with the same parameter values, as well as capture bifurcations in the fixed points of the map that cause switching between slipping and locking. We conclude that the biological neurons in our study have slowly-fluctuating stochastic dynamics that confer history dependence on the period. Theoretical results to date on the behavior of ensembles of noisy biological oscillators may require re-evaluation to account for transitions induced by slow noise dynamics.
The developing visual system of many mammalian species is partially structured and organized even before the onset of vision. Spontaneous neural activity, which spreads in waves across the retina, has been suggested to play a major role in these prenatal structuring processes. Recently, it has been shown that when employing an efficient coding strategy, such as sparse coding, these retinal activity patterns lead to basis functions that resemble optimal stimuli of simple cells in primary visual cortex (V1). Here we present the results of applying a coding strategy that optimizes for temporal slowness, namely Slow Feature Analysis (SFA), to a biologically plausible model of retinal waves. Previously, SFA has been successfully applied to model parts of the visual system, most notably in reproducing a rich set of complex-cell features by training SFA with quasi-natural image sequences. In the present work, we obtain SFA units that share a number of properties with cortical complex-cells by training on simulated retinal waves. The emergence of two distinct properties of the SFA units (phase invariance and orientation tuning) is thoroughly investigated via control experiments and mathematical analysis of the input-output functions found by SFA. The results support the idea that retinal waves share relevant temporal and spatial properties with natural visual input. Hence, retinal waves seem suitable training stimuli to learn invariances and thereby shape the developing early visual system such that it is best prepared for coding input from the natural world.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a late-onset, slowly progressing neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expansion of glutamine repeats. The YAC128 mouse model has been widely used to study the progression of HD symptoms, but little is known about synaptic alterations in very old animals. The present experiments examined synaptic properties of striatal medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs) in 16 month-old YAC128 mice. These mice were crossed with mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of either D1 or D2 dopamine receptor promoters to identify MSNs originating the direct and indirect pathways, respectively. The input-output curves of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents mediated by activation of the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors were reduced in MSNs in both pathways. In the presence of DL-threo--Benzyloxyaspartic acid (DL-TBOA), a glutamate transporter blocker used to increase activation of extrasynaptic receptors, NMDA receptor-mediated currents displayed altered amplitudes, longer decay times, and greater charge (response areas) in both direct and indirect pathway MSNs in YAC128 mice compared to wildtype controls. Amplitudes were significantly increased, primarily in direct pathway MSNs while normalized areas were significantly increased only in indirect pathway MSNs, suggesting that the two types of MSNs are affected in different ways. It may be that indirect pathway neurons are more susceptible to changes in glutamate transport. Taken together, the present findings demonstrate differential alterations in synaptic versus extrasynaptic NMDA receptors in both direct and indirect pathway MSNs in late HD, which may contribute to the dysfunction and degeneration in both pathways.
DNA mutational events are increasingly being identified in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), but the potential additional role of dysregulation of the epigenome in the pathogenesis of the condition remains unclear. The epigenome is of interest as a possible mediator of environmental effects during development, encoding a cellular memory reflected by altered function of progeny cells. Advanced maternal age (AMA) is associated with an increased risk of having a child with ASD for reasons that are not understood. To explore whether AMA involves covert aneuploidy or epigenetic dysregulation leading to ASD in the offspring, we tested a homogeneous ectodermal cell type from 47 individuals with ASD compared with 48 typically developing (TD) controls born to mothers of 35 years, using a quantitative genome-wide DNA methylation assay. We show that DNA methylation patterns are dysregulated in ectodermal cells in these individuals, having accounted for confounding effects due to subject age, sex and ancestral haplotype. We did not find mosaic aneuploidy or copy number variability to occur at differentially-methylated regions in these subjects. Of note, the loci with distinctive DNA methylation were found at genes expressed in the brain and encoding protein products significantly enriched for interactions with those produced by known ASD-causing genes, representing a perturbation by epigenomic dysregulation of the same networks compromised by DNA mutational mechanisms. The results indicate the presence of a mosaic subpopulation of epigenetically-dysregulated, ectodermally-derived cells in subjects with ASD. The epigenetic dysregulation observed in these ASD subjects born to older mothers may be associated with aging parental gametes, environmental influences during embryogenesis or could be the consequence of mutations of the chromatin regulatory genes increasingly implicated in ASD. The results indicate that epigenetic dysregulatory mechanisms may complement and interact with DNA mutations in the pathogenesis of the disorder.
Chemosensory pheromonal information regulates aggression and reproduction in many species, but how pheromonal signals are transduced to reliably produce behavior is not well understood. Here we demonstrate that the pheromonal signals detected by Gr32a-expressing chemosensory neurons to enhance male aggression are filtered through octopamine (OA, invertebrate equivalent of norepinephrine) neurons. Using behavioral assays, we find males lacking both octopamine and Gr32a gustatory receptors exhibit parallel delays in the onset of aggression and reductions in aggression. Physiological and anatomical experiments identify Gr32a to octopamine neuron synaptic and functional connections in the suboesophageal ganglion. Refining the Gr32a-expressing population indicates that mouth Gr32a neurons promote male aggression and form synaptic contacts with OA neurons. By restricting the monoamine neuron target population, we show that three previously identified OA-FruM neurons involved in behavioral choice are among the Gr32a-OA connections. Our findings demonstrate that octopaminergic neuromodulatory neurons function as early as a second-order step in this chemosensory-driven male social behavior pathway.
The Pam/Highwire/RPM-1 (PHR) proteins are key regulators of neuronal development that function in axon extension and guidance, termination of axon outgrowth, and synapse formation. Outside of development, the PHR proteins also regulate axon regeneration and Wallerian degeneration. The PHR proteins function in part by acting as ubiquitin ligases that degrade the Dual Leucine zipper-bearing Kinase (DLK). Here, we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans PHR protein, Regulator of Presynaptic Morphology 1 (RPM-1), also utilizes a phosphatase-based mechanism to regulate DLK-1. Using mass spectrometry, we identified Protein Phosphatase Magnesium/Manganese dependent 2 (PPM-2) as a novel RPM-1 binding protein. Genetic, transgenic, and biochemical studies indicated that PPM-2 functions coordinately with the ubiquitin ligase activity of RPM-1 and the F-box protein FSN-1 to negatively regulate DLK-1. PPM-2 acts on S874 of DLK-1, a residue implicated in regulation of DLK-1 binding to a short, inhibitory isoform of DLK-1 (DLK-1S). Our study demonstrates that PHR proteins function through both phosphatase and ubiquitin ligase mechanisms to inhibit DLK. Thus, PHR proteins are potentially more accurate and sensitive regulators of DLK than originally thought. Our results also highlight an important and expanding role for the PP2C phosphatase family in neuronal development.
Impairment of the tightly regulated ossification process leads to a wide range of skeletal dysplasias and deciphering their molecular bases has contributed to the understanding of this complex process. Here, we report a homozygous mutation in the mitochondria-associated granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor-signaling gene (MAGMAS) in a novel and severe spondylodysplastic dysplasia. MAGMAS, also referred to as PAM16 (presequence translocase-associated motor 16), is a mitochondria-associated protein involved in preprotein translocation into the matrix. We show that MAGMAS is specifically expressed in trabecular bone and cartilage at early developmental stages and that the mutation leads to an instability of the protein. We further demonstrate that the mutation described here confers to yeast strains a temperature-sensitive phenotype, impairs the import of mitochondrial matrix pre-proteins and induces cell death. The finding of deleterious MAGMAS mutations in an early lethal skeletal dysplasia supports a key role for this mitochondrial protein in the ossification process.
Glucose is a major energy source and is a key regulator of metabolism but excessive dietary glucose is linked to several disorders including type 2 diabetes, obesity and cardiac dysfunction. Dietary intake greatly influences organismal survival but whether the effects of nutritional status are transmitted to the offspring is an unresolved question. Here we show that exposing Caenorhabditis elegans to high glucose concentrations in the parental generation leads to opposing negative effects on fecundity, while having protective effects against cellular stress in the descendent progeny. The transgenerational inheritance of glucose-mediated phenotypes is dependent on the insulin/IGF-like signalling pathway and components of the histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylase complex are essential for transmission of inherited phenotypes. Thus dietary over-consumption phenotypes are heritable with profound effects on the health and survival of descendants.

Microbial agents can aggravate inflammatory diseases, such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). An example is pertussis toxin (PTX), a bacterial virulence factor commonly used as an adjuvant to promote EAE, but whose mechanism of action is unclear. We have reported that PTX triggers an IL-6-mediated signaling cascade that increases the number of leukocytes that patrol the vasculature by crawling on its luminal surface. In the present study, we examined this response in mice lacking either TLR4 or inflammasome components and using enzymatically active and inactive forms of PTX. Our results indicate that PTX, through its ADP-ribosyltransferase activity, induces two series of events upstream of IL-6: 1) the activation of TLR4 signaling in myeloid cells, leading to pro-IL-1 synthesis; and 2) the formation of a pyrin-dependent inflammasome that cleaves pro-IL-1 into its active form. In turn, IL-1 stimulates nearby stromal cells to secrete IL-6, which is known to induce vascular changes required for leukocyte adhesion. Without pyrin, PTX does not induce neutrophil adhesion to cerebral capillaries and is less effective at inducing EAE in transgenic mice with encephalitogenic T lymphocytes. This study identifies the first microbial molecule that activates pyrin, a mechanism by which infections may influence MS and a potential therapeutic target for immune disorders.
Infections with monkeypox, cowpox and weaponized variola virus remain a threat to the increasingly unvaccinated human population, but little is known about their mechanisms of virulence and immune evasion. We now demonstrate that B22 proteins, encoded by the largest genes of these viruses, render human T cells unresponsive to stimulation of the T cell receptor by MHC-dependent antigen presentation or by MHC-independent stimulation. In contrast, stimuli that bypass TCR-signaling are not inhibited. In a non-human primate model of monkeypox, virus lacking the B22R homologue (MPXV197) caused only mild disease with lower viremia and cutaneous pox lesions compared to wild type MPXV which caused high viremia, morbidity and mortality. Since MPXV197-infected animals displayed accelerated T cell responses and less T cell dysregulation than MPXV US2003, we conclude that B22 family proteins cause viral virulence by suppressing T cell control of viral dissemination.

Neuroimaging studies have repeatedly reported findings of activation in frontoparietal regions that largely overlap across various cognitive functions. Part of this frontoparietal activation has been interpreted as reflecting attentional mechanisms that can adaptively be directed towards external stimulation as well as internal representations (internal attention), thereby generating the experience of distinct cognitive functions. Nevertheless, findings of material- and task-specific activation in frontal and parietal regions challenge this internal attention hypothesis and have been used to support more modular hypotheses of cognitive function. The aim of this review is twofold: First, it discusses evidence in support of the concept of internal attention and the so-called dorsal attention network (DAN) as its neural source with respect to three cognitive functions (working memory, episodic retrieval, and mental imagery). While DAN activation in all three functions has been separately linked to internal attention, a comprehensive and integrative review has so far been lacking. Second, the review examines findings of material- and process-specific activation within frontoparietal regions, arguing that these results are well compatible with the internal attention account of frontoparietal activation. A new model of cognition is presented, proposing that supposedly different cognitive concepts actually rely on similar attentional network dynamics to maintain, reactivate and newly create internal representations of stimuli in various modalities. Attentional as well as representational mechanisms are assigned to frontal and parietal regions, positing that some regions are implicated in the allocation of attentional resources to perceptual or internal representations, but others are involved in the representational processes themselves.
Visual hallucinations are common across a number of disorders but to date, a unifying pathophysiology underlying these phenomena has not been described. In this manuscript, we combine insights from neuropathological, neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies to propose a testable common neural mechanism for visual hallucinations. We propose that 'simple' visual hallucinations arise from disturbances within regions responsible for the primary processing of visual information, however with no further modulation of perceptual content by attention. In contrast, 'complex' visual hallucinations reflect dysfunction within and between the Attentional Control Networks, leading to the inappropriate interpretation of ambiguous percepts. The incorrect information perceived by hallucinators is often differentially interpreted depending on the time-course and the neuroarchitecture underlying the interpretation. Disorders with 'complex' hallucinations without retained insight are proposed to be associated with a reduction in the activity within the Dorsal Attention Network. The review concludes by showing that a variety of pathological processes can ultimately manifest in any of these three categories, depending on the precise location of the impairment.
The early developing retinal neuroepithelium is composed of multipotent retinal progenitor cells that differentiate in a time specific manner, giving rise to six major types of neuronal and one type of glial cells. These cells migrate and organize in three distinct nuclear layers divided by two plexiform layers. Apical and adherens junction complexes have a crucial role in this process by the establishment of polarity and adhesion. Changes in these complexes disturb the spatiotemporal aspects of retinogenesis, leading to retinal degeneration resulting in mild or severe impairment of retinal function and vision. In this review, we summarize the mouse models for the different members of the apical and adherens junction protein complexes and describe the main features of their retinal phenotypes. The knowledge acquired from the different mutant animals for these proteins corroborate their importance in retina development and maintenance of normal retinal structure and function. More recently, several studies have tried to unravel the connection between the apical proteins, important cellular signaling pathways and their relation in retina development. Still, the mechanisms by which these proteins function remain largely unknown. Here, we hypothesize how the mammalian apical CRB1 complex might control retinogenesis and prevents onset of Leber congenital amaurosis or retinitis pigmentosa.

Fetal and perinatal exposure to selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) has been reported to alter childhood behavior, while transient early exposure in rodents is reported to alter their behavior and decrease brain extracellular 5-HT in adulthood. Since 5-HT2A/2C receptor-mediated neurotransmission can involve G-protein coupled activation of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2), releasing arachidonic acid (ARA) from synaptic membrane phospholipid, we hypothesized that transient postnatal exposure to fluoxetine would alter brain ARA metabolism in adult mice. Brain ARA incorporation coefficients k* and rates Jin were quantitatively imaged following intravenous [1-(14)C]ARA infusion of unanesthetized adult mice that had been injected daily with fluoxetine (10mg/kg i.p.) or saline during postnatal days P4-P21. Expression of brain ARA metabolic enzymes and other relevant markers also was measured. On neuroimaging, k* and Jin was decreased widely in early fluoxetine- compared to saline-treated adult mice. Of the enzymes measured, cPLA2 activity was unchanged, while Ca(2+)-independent iPLA2 activity was increased. There was a significant 74% reduced protein level of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 4A, which can convert ARA to 20-HETE. Reduced brain ARA metabolism in adult mice transiently exposed to postnatal fluoxetine, and a 74% reduction in CYP4A protein, suggest long-term effects independent of drug presence in brain ARA metabolism, and in CYP4A metabolites. These changes might contribute to reported altered behavior following early SSRI in rodents.
Social emotions are affective states elicited during social interactions and integral for promoting socially appropriate behaviors and discouraging socially inappropriate ones. Social emotion-processing deficits significantly impair interpersonal relationships, and play distinct roles in the manifestation and maintenance of clinical symptomatology. Elucidating the neural correlates of discrete social emotions can serve as a window to better understanding and treating neuropsychiatric disorders. Moral cognition and social emotion-processing broadly recruit a fronto-temporo-subcortical network, supporting empathy, perspective-taking, self-processing, and reward-processing. The present review specifically examines the neural correlates of embarrassment, guilt, envy, and schadenfreude. Embarrassment and guilt are self-conscious emotions, evoked during negative evaluation following norm violations and supported by a fronto-temporo-posterior network. Embarrassment is evoked by social transgressions and recruits greater anterior temporal regions, representing conceptual social knowledge. Guilt is evoked by moral transgressions and recruits greater prefrontal regions, representing perspective-taking and behavioral change demands. Envy and schadenfreude are fortune-of-other emotions, evoked during social comparison and supported by a prefronto-striatal network. Envy represents displeasure in others' fortunes, and recruits increased dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, representing cognitive dissonance, and decreased reward-related striatal regions. Schadenfreude represents pleasure in others' misfortunes, and recruits reduced empathy-related insular regions and increased reward-related striatal regions. Implications for psychopathology and treatment design are discussed.

Dalenberg et al. (2012) argued that convincing evidence (a) supports the longstanding trauma model (TM), which posits that early trauma plays a key role in the genesis of dissociation; and (b) refutes the fantasy model (FM), which posits that fantasy proneness, suggestibility, cognitive failures, and other variables foster dissociation. We review evidence bearing on Dalenberg et al.'s 8 predictions and find them largely wanting in empirical support. We contend that the authors repeat errors committed by many previous proponents of the TM, such as attributing a central etiological role to trauma in the absence of sufficient evidence. Specifically, Dalenberg et al. leap too quickly from correlational data to causal conclusions, do not adequately consider the lack of corroboration of abuse in many studies, and underestimate the relation between dissociation and false memories. Nevertheless, we identify points of agreement between the TM and FM regarding potential moderators and mediators of dissociative symptoms (e.g., family environment, biological vulnerabilities) and the hypothesis that dissociative identity disorder is a disorder of self-understanding. We acknowledge that trauma may play a causal role in dissociation but that this role is less central and specific than Dalenberg et al. contend. Finally, although a key assumption of the TM is dissociative amnesia, the notion that people can encode traumatic experiences without being able to recall them lacks strong empirical support. Accordingly, we conclude that the field should now abandon the simple trauma-dissociation model and embrace multifactorial models that accommodate the diversity of causes of dissociation and dissociative disorders.
Selective auditory attention causes a relative enhancement of the neural representation of important information and suppression of the neural representation of distracting sound, which enables a listener to analyze and interpret information of interest. Some studies suggest that in both vision and in audition, the &quot;unit&quot; on which attention operates is an object: an estimate of the information coming from a particular external source out in the world. In this view, which object ends up in the attentional foreground depends on the interplay of top-down, volitional attention and stimulus-driven, involuntary attention. Here, we test the idea that auditory attention is object based by exploring whether continuity of a non-spatial feature (talker identity, a feature that helps acoustic elements bind into one perceptual object) also influences selective attention performance. In Experiment 1, we show that perceptual continuity of target talker voice helps listeners report a sequence of spoken target digits embedded in competing reversed digits spoken by different talkers. In Experiment 2, we provide evidence that this benefit of voice continuity is obligatory and automatic, as if voice continuity biases listeners by making it easier to focus on a subsequent target digit when it is perceptually linked to what was already in the attentional foreground. Our results support the idea that feature continuity enhances streaming automatically, thereby influencing the dynamic processes that allow listeners to successfully attend to objects through time in the cacophony that assails our ears in many everyday settings.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) offer unique insights into processes related to involuntary attention changes triggered by rare, unpredictably occurring sensory events, that is, distraction. Contrasting ERPs elicited by distracters and frequent standard stimuli in oddball paradigms allowed the formulation of a three-stage model describing distraction-related processing: first, the distracting event is highlighted by a sensory filter. Second, attention is oriented towards the event, and finally, the task-optimal attention set is restored, or task priorities are changed. Although this model summarizes how distracting stimulus information is processed, not much is known about the cost of taking this exceptional route of processing. The present study demonstrates the impact of distraction on sensory processing. Participants performed a Go/NoGo tone-duration discrimination task, with infrequent pitch distracters. In the two parts of the experiment the duration-response mapping was reversed. Contrasts of distracter and standard ERPs revealed higher P3a- and reorienting negativity amplitudes for short than for long tones, independently from response type. To understand the cause of these asymmetries, short vs. long ERP contrasts were calculated. The ERP pattern showed that short standards elicited an attention-dependent offset response, which was abolished for short distracters. That is, the apparent P3a- and RON enhancements were caused by the removal of a task-related attentional sensory enhancement. This shows that the disruption of task-optimal attention set precedes the elicitation of the P3a, which suggests that P3a does not reflect a process driving the initial distraction-related attention change.
Animals use social camouflage as a tool of deceit to increase the likelihood of survival and reproduction. We tested whether humans can also strategically deploy transient facial movements to camouflage the default social traits conveyed by the phenotypic morphology of their faces. We used the responses of 12 observers to create models of the dynamic facial signals of dominance, trustworthiness, and attractiveness. We applied these dynamic models to facial morphologies differing on perceived dominance, trustworthiness, and attractiveness to create a set of dynamic faces; new observers rated each dynamic face according to the three social traits. We found that specific facial movements camouflage the social appearance of a face by modulating the features of phenotypic morphology. A comparison of these facial expressions with those similarly derived for facial emotions showed that social-trait expressions, rather than being simple one-to-one overgeneralizations of emotional expressions, are a distinct set of signals composed of movements from different emotions. Our generative face models represent novel psychophysical laws for social sciences; these laws predict the perception of social traits on the basis of dynamic face identities.
To maximize survival and reproductive success, primates evolved the tendency to tell lies and the ability to accurately detect them. Despite the obvious advantage of detecting lies accurately, conscious judgments of veracity are only slightly more accurate than chance. However, findings in forensic psychology, neuroscience, and primatology suggest that lies can be accurately detected when less-conscious mental processes (as opposed to more-conscious mental processes) are used. We predicted that observing someone tell a lie would automatically activate cognitive concepts associated with deception, and observing someone tell the truth would activate concepts associated with truth. In two experiments, we demonstrated that indirect measures of deception detection are significantly more accurate than direct measures. These findings provide a new lens through which to reconsider old questions and approach new investigations of human lie detection.
Stress is a ubiquitous challenge in society as we consistently interact with others under the influence of stress. Distinguishing self- from other-related mental representations plays an important role for social interactions, and is a prerequisite for crucial social skills such as action understanding, empathy, and mentalizing. Little is known, however, about the effects of stress on self-other distinction. We assessed how acute stress impacts self-other distinction in the perceptual-motor, the affective, and the cognitive domain, in a male and female sample. In all domains, the results show opposing effects of stress on the two genders: while women showed increases in self-other distinction, men showed decreases. Our findings suggest that women flexibly disambiguate self and other under stress, enabling accurate social responses, while men respond with increased egocentricity and less adaptive regulation. This has crucial implications for explaining gender differences in social skills such as empathy and prosociality.

Emerging research has suggested that hormone treatments such as selective oestrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) or progestins may be useful in the treatment of mania. The current pilot study compared the use of the SERM tamoxifen and the progestin medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), as an adjunct to mood stabiliser medications, for the treatment of mania symptoms in 51 women in a 28-day double blind, placebo controlled study. The primary outcome was the change between baseline and day 28 mania scores as measured by the Clinician Administered Rating Scale for Mania (CARS-M). Adjunctive MPA treatment provided greater and more rapid improvement in mania symptoms compared with adjunctive placebo and tamoxifen treatment. Adjunctive therapy with MPA may be a potentially useful new treatment for persistent mania, leading to a greater and more rapid resolution of symptoms compared with mood stabiliser treatment alone.




This study investigated the neural effect of conflict context modulation of cognitive and affective conflict processing by recording evoked-response potentials in cognitive and affective versions of a flanker task. By varying the proportion of congruent and incongruent trials in a block, we found different patterns of the context effect on evoked potentials during cognitive and affective conflict processing. For posterior N1 amplitude, frequent incongruent trials produced a larger effect only in the affective task. The opposite pattern of the context effect was observed for the central N450, which was enhanced by frequent cognitive but reduced by frequent affective contexts. We found similar context effect on the parietal sustained potential in both tasks. Overall, our findings suggest that cognitive and affective conflict processing engage a context-dependent attentional control mechanism but a common conflict response system.
An auditory selective attention set allows one to enhance the processing of goal-relevant sound events, which is reflected by the enhancement of the N1 event-related potential (ERP). The present study investigated whether the sensory consequences of distraction (i.e., involuntary attention changes triggered by infrequent sensory events) can be revealed as the removal of this attentional ERP enhancement. Continuous tones featuring occasional gaps were presented, and participants performed a gap-detection task. Independently from gaps, abrupt pitch changes (glides) were introduced, either rarely or frequently, in separate conditions. Whereas rare glides preceding gaps by 150 ms strongly impacted gap-detection performance and gap-related N1 amplitudes, their impact on gaps following rare glides by 650 ms was significantly smaller in both measures. This result demonstrates the utility of N1 in probing the sensory impact of auditory distraction.
The role in which two tones are first encountered in an unattended oddball sequence affects how deviance detection, reflected by mismatch negativity, treats them later when the roles reverse: a &quot;primacy bias.&quot; We tested whether this effect is modulated by previous behavioral relevance assigned to the two tones. To this end, sequences in which the roles of the two tones alternated were preceded by a go/no-go task in which tones were presented with equal probability. Half of the participants were asked to respond to the short sounds, the other half to long sounds. Primacy bias was initially abolished but returned dependent upon the go-stimulus that the participant was assigned. Results demonstrate a long-term impact of prior learning on deviance detection, and that even when prior importance/equivalence is learned, the bias ultimately returns. Results are discussed in terms of persistent go-stimulus specific changes in responsiveness to sound.
Hyperventilation has been linked to emotional distress in adults. This study investigates end-tidal carbon dioxide (ETCO2 ), respiratory rate (RR), and heart rate variability (HRV) in adolescent girls with emotional disorders and healthy controls. ETCO2 , RR, HRV, and ratings of emotional symptom severity were collected in adolescent female psychiatric patients with emotional disorders (n = 63) and healthy controls (n = 62). ETCO2 and RR differed significantly between patients and controls. ETCO2, HR, and HRV were significant independent predictors of group status, that is, clinical or healthy, while RR was not. ETCO2 and RR were significantly related to emotional symptom severity and to HRV in the total group. ETCO2 and RR were not affected by use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. It is concluded that emotional dysregulation is related to hyperventilation in adolescent girls. Respiratory-based treatments may be relevant to investigate in future research.

Surprisingly little is known about the nature of intermediary sublexical units in visual word recognition in Italian, a language with a highly consistent print-to-sound mapping, which should enhance reliance on grapheme-to-phoneme correspondences. In the present study, we examined whether Italian readers are sensitive to large orthographic units defined by the consonant-vowel (CV) pattern of words and that do not directly map onto linguistic constituents. Participants had to judge the number of syllables in written words matched for the number of spoken syllables but comprising either one orthographic vowel cluster less than the number of syllables (hiatus words, e.g., teatro) or as many vowel clusters as syllables (e.g., agosto). Relative to control words, readers were slower and less accurate for hiatus words, for which they underestimated the number of syllables. This underestimation bias demonstrates that Italian readers are sensitive to large orthographic units stemming from a parsing process based on the CV pattern-that is, the arrangement of consonant and vowel letters.
The current research investigated differences in reactive and proactive cognitive control as a function of depressive symptomatology. Three participant groups with varying symptom levels (Beck Depression Inventory-II, BDI-II score) completed both the classic and an emotional-face Stroop task separately under speed and accuracy instructions. All groups made equivalent speed-accuracy trade-offs independent of task, suggesting that proactive adjustments are unaffected by depressive symptoms. Additionally, groups made equivalent reactive control adjustments (Stroop effects, congruency sequence effects) in the classic Stroop task, suggesting that these reactive control adjustments are spared across a wide range of BDI-II scorers. In contrast, the high BDI-II group displayed a selective impairment in the resolution of conflict in the emotional-face Stroop task. Thus, while proactive control and many aspects of reactive control were unaffected by the level of depressive symptoms, specific impairments occurred when current task demands required the trial-to-trial regulation of emotional processing.
This article provides an overview of the Brown University Traumatic Brain Injury Research Consortium (TBIRC) and summarizes the multidisciplinary basic and clinical neuroscience work being conducted by investigators at Brown University and the affiliate hospitals in association with the Norman Prince Neurosciences Institute (NPNI). [Full text available at http://rimed.org/rimedicaljournal-2014-05.asp, free with no login].
Advances in neuroscience, engineering and computer technologies are creating opportunities to connect the brain directly to devices to treat a variety of disorders, both neurological and psychiatric. They are opening a new field of neuroscience called &quot;neurotechnology.&quot; This article reviews efforts in this area that are ongoing at Brown University and the hospitals affiliated with Brown's Alpert Medical School. Two general approaches are being used. One uses advanced electrodes to &quot;sense&quot; the activity of many individual neurons in the cerebral cortex and then use that activity for therapeutic purposes. The other uses various types of devices to stimulate specific networks in the brain in order to restore normal function and alleviate symptoms. [Full text available at http://rimed.org/rimedicaljournal-2014-05.asp, free with no login].




The Hering-Breuer (HBR) reflex is considered a major regulatory feedback for the generation and patterning of respiratory activity. While HBR is important in neonates, its significance in adults is controversial. Previous experiments that investigated the plasticity of entrainment of the respiratory rhythm by vagal input demonstrated postnatal changes in HBR plasticity. Here we analyzed postnatal changes in the plasticity of HBR by mimicking the classic lung inflation tests with repetitive tonic vagal stimulation across different postnatal stages in an in situ perfused brainstem preparation of rat. The study shows that neonates stereotypically exhibit HBR stimulus-dependent prolongation of expiration while juvenile preparations (&gt;postnatal day 16) showed significant habituation of HBR following repetitive stimulation. Subsequent experiments employing physiological lung inflation tests in situ confirmed HBR habituation in juveniles. We conclude that postnatal emergence of HBR habituation explains the weak contribution and high activation threshold of HBR in the regulation of eupnea.
This study investigated the involvement of sensory nerves and, in particular, neuronal transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) 1 channels, in the CO(2)-mediated regulation of cerebrovascular tone. Basilar artery diameter and blood flow velocity in the ventral midbrain were determined in a rat cranial window preparation by digital imaging and laser-Doppler flowmetry, respectively. Superfusion of the basilar artery with capsaicin, a selective TRPV1 receptor agonist, caused a transient relaxation, consistent with acute desensitization of neuronal TRPV1 channels. Constriction to respiratory hypocapnia remained unaffected following capsaicin superfusion. Denervation of sensory nerves by repeated capsaicin injection of neonates also did not reduce the respiratory hypocapnia constriction of the basilar artery as well as the decreased flow velocity in the ventral midbrain in adults. These findings suggest that sensory nerves and, in particular, neuronal TRPV1 channels, do not play a role in respiratory hypocapnia constriction and decreased flow, at least in rat basilar artery and ventral midbrain.
Parvovirus B19 has been linked with various clinical syndromes including neurological manifestations. However, its role in the latter remains not completely understood. Although the last 10years witnessed a surge of case reports on B19-associated neurological aspects, the literature data remains scattered and heterogeneous, and epidemiological information on the incidence of B19-associated neurological aspects cannot be accurately extrapolated. The aim of this review is to identify the characteristics of cases of B19-associated neurological manifestations. A computerized systematic review of existing literature concerning cases of B19-related neurological aspects revealed 89 articles describing 129 patients; 79 (61.2%) were associated with CNS manifestations, 41 (31.8%) were associated with peripheral nervous system manifestations, and 9 (7.0%) were linked with myalgic encephalomyelitis. The majority of the cases (50/129) had encephalitis. Clinical characteristic features of these cases were analyzed, and possible pathological mechanisms were also described. In conclusion, B19 should be included in differential diagnosis of encephalitic syndromes of unknown etiology in all age groups. Diagnosis should rely on investigation of anti-B19 IgM antibodies and detection of B19 DNA in serum or CSF. Treatment of severe cases might benefit from a combined regime of intravenous immunoglobulins and steroids. To confirm these outcomes, goal-targeted studies are recommended to exactly identify epidemiological scenarios and explore potential pathogenic mechanisms of these complications. Performing retrospective and prospective and multicenter studies concerning B19 and neurological aspects in general, and B19 and encephalitic syndromes in particular, are required.
Monocytes are highly abundant circulatory effector cells and play a vital role in driving or resolving inflammatory processes depending on their activation phenotype. We investigated and compared a panel of polarization protocols of blood-derived monocytes to achieve a stable, optimal and effective regimen for in vitro induction of immunosuppressive human macrophages, evaluating their surface receptor expression, cytokine profile, scavenging function and ability to suppress T-cell proliferation. Importantly, we assessed the effect of copolarization or secondary pro-inflammatory stimulation of a primary anti-inflammatory activation phenotype. A combination of IL-4/IL-10/TGF- yielded a relatively stable and dominant immunosuppressive phenotype characterized by higher IL-10 production and down-regulated TNF-, IL-6, CD86, CD274 and MHC II expression. Functionally, IL-4/IL-10/TGF--stimulated macrophages (M2) had a potent deactivating effect on a subsequent pro-inflammatory LPS/IFN-activated macrophage (M1) stimulation and significantly suppressed T-cell proliferation. Monocytes derived from patients with chronic inflammatory diseases could be induced to be anti-inflammatory using this protocol. Pre-differentiation with GM-CSF or M-CSF was further demonstrated to enhance final M1/M2 activation status. Our findings indicate a robust polarization protocol for generation of specific immunosuppressive human monocyte-derived macrophages.
The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) has provided diagnostic reliability across observers while neglecting biological validity. The current theme issue explores the boundaries between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, using neuro-cognition, systems neuroscience, and genetics as points of departure to begin consideration of a biologically based reclassification of these illnesses.
Neuroimaging studies have generated a large body of knowledge regarding the neural correlates of schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BD). However, the initial goal of identifying disease-specific topographical mappings to localized brain regions or to distinct neural networks has not materialized and may be untenable. This contribution will argue that a systems neuroscience approach may prove more fruitful. The supporting evidence presented covers (a) brain structural, functional, and connectivity alterations and their implication for the clinical and cognitive manifestations of SZ and BD, (b) the prevailing system neuroscience models of the 2 disorders, and (c) key hypotheses likely to produce new insights into the mechanisms of underlying psychotic disorders.

Typical brain development includes coordinated changes in both white matter (WM) integrity and cortical thickness (CT). These processes have been shown to be disrupted in schizophrenia, which is characterized by abnormalities in WM microstructure and by reduced CT. The aim of this study was to identify patterns of association between WM markers and cortex-wide CT in healthy controls (HCs) and patients with schizophrenia (SCZ). Using diffusion tensor imaging and structural magnetic resonance imaging data of the Mind Clinical Imaging Consortium study (130 HC and 111 SCZ), we tested for associations between (a) fractional anisotropy in selected manually labeled WM pathways (corpus callosum, anterior thalamic radiation, and superior longitudinal fasciculus) and CT, and (b) the number of lesion-like WM regions (&quot;potholes&quot;) and CT. In HC, but not SCZ, we found highly significant negative associations between WM integrity and CT in several pathways, including frontal, temporal, and occipital brain regions. Conversely, in SCZ the number of WM potholes correlated with reduced CT in the left lateral temporal gyrus, left fusiform, and left lateral occipital brain area. Taken together, we found differential patterns of association between WM integrity and CT in HC and SCZ. Although the pattern in HC can be explained from a developmental perspective, the reduced gray matter CT in SCZ patients might be the result of focal but spatially heterogeneous disruptions of WM integrity.

Several lines of evidence suggest that childhood maltreatment is associated with an increased risk for both psychotic disorders and subclinical psychotic-like experiences in the general population. Few studies, however, have sought to examine whether the strength of this relationship is comparable across patient and non-patient groups. The present study sought to compare the strength of the association between childhood maltreatment and self-reported psychotic symptoms in 447 healthy adult volunteers and 184 stable outpatients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Strong positive correlations between childhood maltreatment and self-reported symptoms were observed in both groups. Although patients scored significantly higher than controls on both history of childhood maltreatment and self-reported symptoms, the strength of the relationship did not differ between groups. These data provide strong support for etiological continuity between subclinical psychotic symptoms and psychotic disorders.

Genome-wide association studies have provided strong evidence for association of the SNP rs1344706 in the ZNF804A gene with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Neuroimaging studies have suggested that variation at rs1344706 may be associated with neural endophenotypes such as white matter volumes and densities. However, analyses of white matter microstructure using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) have produced conflicting results. We examined the association between rs1344706 and white matter microstructure in 107 healthy individuals using tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS). TBSS analysis showed significant association between the risk allele and lower fractional anisotropy in the corpus callosum, left forceps minor, and right parietal white matter (p&lt;.05; FWE corrected). Post-hoc analyses indicated that this association was largely driven by alterations in radial diffusivity, consistent with an effect of genotype on myelination. In light of the strong DTI evidence for white matter microstructural abnormalities in schizophrenia, the current results implicate a potential mechanism for schizophrenia risk formation by ZNF804A rs1344706 genotype.
Neurexin 1 (NRXN1) is a presynaptic neuronal adhesion molecule that interacts with postsynaptic neuroligins in both glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses and is important in synaptic formation and function. NRXN1 deletions increase the risk of schizophrenia, so our aims were to explore this in our family sample, to distinguish de novo from inherited mutations, to examine transmission to affected and unaffected siblings and to estimate penetrance. We performed copy number analyses in NRXN1 using data from Illumina BeadArrays from 635 subjects with schizophrenia (276 in genotyped families), 487 of their unaffected parents and 309 unaffected siblings as well as 635 normal controls, all from the CBDB/NIMH Genetic Study of Schizophrenia. Deletions called by software were confirmed by quantitative PCR and comparative genome hybridization. There were deletions in 15 individuals in 11 families, including de novo exonic deletions in one case and one unaffected sibling. We observed no deletions in controls, 7 deletions in cases (1.10%), and an unexpectedly high deletion frequency in parents (n=5, 1.02%) and siblings (n=3, 0.97%). Three families showed inheritance from an unaffected parent, and in two families an unaffected parent did not transmit to the affected offspring. Thus we have added to the evidence that NRXN1 deletions are more frequent in patients with schizophrenia than in healthy individuals. However, the presence of de novo deletions in unaffected relatives and transmission from and to unaffected family members demonstrated that while the deletions may well have been necessary for some carriers to develop schizophrenia, they were not always sufficient.

Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are often viewed as distinct clinical disorders, however there is substantial overlap in their neuropathologies. While compromised cortical interneurons are implicated in both diseases, few studies have examined the relative contribution of the distinct interneuron populations to each psychotic disorder. We report reductions in somatostatin and vasoactive intestinal peptide mRNAs in prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices in bipolar disorder (n=31) and schizophrenia (n=35) compared to controls (n=34) and increased calbindin mRNA in schizophrenia. We show, at the molecular level, shared deficits in interneuron markers in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and a unique interneuron marker increase in schizophrenia.




This review focuses on rodent models exposed to sex steroids prepubertally and describes their phenotypes and pathophysiology with specific focus on the estradiol valerate-, dihydrotestosterone-, and letrozole-induced rat polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) models. Phenotypic presentations are compared among models as a function of the timing and dose of the exposure. Furthermore, the use of these models to study the possible effects and mechanisms of different treatment modalities relevant for women with PCOS will be discussed. Importantly, we do not claim to review all available rodent models of PCOS. Despite the variety of rodent PCOS models currently available, there is no &quot;gold standard&quot; that mimics the complete range of abnormalities observed in women with PCOS. In this regard, it is important to select the most suitable model for the pathophysiological experiment to be performed or the treatment strategy to be tested. Important variables to take into consideration are dose, route of administration, timing and duration of exposure, and the relevance of the abnormalities of the reproductive and metabolic axes in the rodent model to those observed in human PCOS.



When viewing object-related hand actions people make proactive eye movements of the same kind as those made when performing such actions. Why is this so? It has been suggested that proactive gaze when viewing a given hand action depends on the recruitment of motor areas such as the ventral premotor (PMv) cortex that would be involved in the execution of that action. However, direct evidence for a distinctive role of the PMv cortex in driving gaze behavior is still lacking. We recorded eye moments while viewing hand actions before and immediately after delivering repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the left PMv and the posterior part of the left superior temporal sulcus, which is known to be involved in high-order visual action processing. Our results showed that rTMS-induced effects were selective with respect to the viewed actions following the virtual lesion of the left PMv only. This, for the first time, provides direct evidence that the PMv cortex might selectively contribute to driving the viewer's gaze to the action's target. When people view another's action, their eyes may be driven by motor processes similar to those they would need to perform the action themselves.
Individuals react to violation of social norms by outgroup members differently than to transgressions of those same norms by ingroup members: namely outgroup perpetrators are punished much more harshly than ingroup perpetrators. This parochial punishment pattern has been observed and extensively studied in social psychology and behavioral economics. Despite progress in recent years, however, little is known about the neural underpinnings of this intergroup bias. Here, we demonstrate by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) that the transient disruption of the right, but not the left temporo-parietal junction (TPJ), reduces parochial punishment in a third-party punishment paradigm with real social groups. Moreover, we show that this observed TMS effect on parochial punishment is mediated by a classical punishment motive, i.e. retaliation. Finally, our data suggests that a change in perspective-taking might be the underlying mechanism that explains the impact of right TPJ disruption on retaliation motivation and parochial punishment. These findings provide the first causal evidence that the right TPJ plays a pivotal role in the implementation of parochial behaviors.
The present study identified ATF3 as a novel dynamic marker for ependymal stem/progenitor cells (nestin, vimentin and SOX2 positive) around the central canal of the neonatal or adult rat spinal cord. While quiescent ependymal cells showed cytoplasmic ATF3 expression, during 6-24h in vitro these cells mobilized and acquired intense nuclear ATF3 staining. Their migratory pattern followed a centrifugal pathway toward the dorsal and ventral funiculi, reminiscent of the rostral migratory stream of the brain subventricular stem cells. Thus, the chain cell formation was, by analogy, termed funicular migratory stream (FMS). The FMS process preceded the strong proliferation of ependymal cells occurring only after 24h in vitro. Pharmacological inhibition of MAPK-p38 and JNK/c-Jun (upstream effectors of ATF3 activation) prevented the FMS mobilization of ATF3 nuclear-positive cells. Excitotoxicity or ischemia-like conditions, reported to evoke neuronal and glial injury, did not further enhance migration of ependymal cells at 24h, suggesting that, at this early stage of damage, the FMS phenomenon had peaked and that more extensive repair processes are delayed beyond this time point. ATF3 is, therefore, useful to identify activation and migration of endogenous stem cells of the rat spinal cord in vitro.
The neuropeptide VGF (non-acronymic), which has antidepressant-like effects, enhances adult hippocampal neurogenesis as well as synaptic activity and plasticity in the hippocampus, however the interaction between these processes and the mechanism underlying this regulation remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that VGF-derived peptide TLQP-62 specifically enhances the generation of early progenitor cells in nestin-GFP mice. Specifically, TLQP-62 significantly increases the number of Type 2a neural progenitor cells (NPCs) while reducing the number of more differentiated Type 3 cells. The effect of TLQP-62 on proliferation rather than differentiation was confirmed using NPCs in vitro; TLQP-62 but not scrambled peptide PEHN-62 increases proliferation in a cell line as well as in primary progenitors from adult hippocampus. Moreover, TLQP-62 but not scrambled peptide increases Cyclin D mRNA expression. The proliferation of NPCs induced by TLQP-62 requires synaptic activity, in particular through NMDA and metabotropic glutamate receptors. The activation of glutamate receptors by TLQP-62 activation induces phosphorylation of CaMKII through NMDA receptors and protein kinase D through metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5). Furthermore, pharmacological antagonists to CaMKII and PKD inhibit TLQP-62-induced proliferation of NPCs indicating that these signaling molecules downstream of glutamate receptors are essential for the actions of TLQP-62 on neurogenesis. We also show that TLQP-62 gradually activates Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF)-receptor TrkB in vitro and that Trk signaling is required for TLQP-62-induced proliferation of NPCs. Understanding the precise molecular mechanism of how TLQP-62 influences neurogenesis may reveal mechanisms by which VGF-derived peptides act as antidepressant-like agents.
Neural stem cells (NSC) in two regions of the adult mammalian brain--the subventricular zone (SVZ) and hippocampus--continuously generate new neurons, enabled by a complex repertoire of factors that precisely regulate the activation, proliferation, differentiation, and integration of the newborn cells. A growing number of studies also report low-level neurogenesis in regions of the adult brain outside these established neurogenic niches--potentially via NSC recruitment or activation of local, quiescent NSCs--under perturbations such as ischemia, cell death, or viral gene delivery of proneural growth factors. We have explored whether implantation of engineered biomaterials can stimulate neurogenesis in normally quiescent regions of the brain. Specifically, recombinant versions of factors found within the NSC microenvironment, Sonic hedgehog, and ephrin-B2 were conjugated to long polymers, thereby creating highly bioactive, multivalent ligands that begin to emulate components of the neurogenic niche. In this engineered biomaterial microenvironment, new neuron formation was observed in normally non-neurogenic regions of the brain, the striatum, and the cortex, and combining these multivalent biomaterials with stromal cell-derived factor-1 increased neuronal commitment of newly divided cells seven- to eightfold in these regions. Additionally, the decreased hippocampal neurogenesis of geriatric rodents was partially rescued toward levels of young animals. We thus demonstrate for the first time de novo neurogenesis in both the cortex and striatum of adult rodents stimulated solely by delivery of synthetic biomaterial forms of proteins naturally found within adult neurogenic niches, offering the potential to replace neurons lost in neurodegenerative disease or injury as an alternative to cell implantation.
Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) show considerable promise for cell replacement therapies for Huntington's disease (HD). Our laboratory has demonstrated that tail-tip fibroblasts, reprogrammed into iPSCs via two adenoviruses, can survive and differentiate into neuronal lineages following transplantation into healthy adult rats. However, the ability of these cells to survive, differentiate, and restore function in a damaged brain is unknown. To this end, adult rats received a regimen of 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) to induce behavioral and neuropathological deficits that resemble HD. At 7, 21, and 42 days after the initiation of 3-NP or vehicle, the rats received intrastriatal bilateral transplantation of iPSCs. All rats that received 3-NP and vehicle treatment displayed significant motor impairment, whereas those that received iPSC transplantation after 3-NP treatment had preserved motor function. Histological analysis of the brains of these rats revealed significant decreases in optical densitometric measures in the striatum, lateral ventricle enlargement, as well as an increase in striosome size in all rats receiving 3-NP when compared with sham rats. The 3-NP-treated rats given transplants of iPSCs in the 7- or 21-day groups did not exhibit these deficits. Transplantation of iPSCs at the late-stage (42-day) time point did not protect against the 3-NP-induced neuropathology, despite preserving motor function. Transplanted iPSCs were found to survive and differentiate into region-specific neurons in the striatum of 3-NP rats, at all transplantation time points. Taken together, these results suggest that transplantation of adenovirus-generated iPSCs may provide a potential avenue for therapeutic treatment of HD.
The generation of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) represents an exciting advancement with promise for stem cell transplantation therapies as well as for neurological disease modeling. Based on the emerging roles for astrocytes in neurological disorders, we investigated whether hiPSC-derived astrocyte progenitors could be engrafted to the rodent spinal cord and how the characteristics of these cells changed between in vitro culture and after transplantation to the in vivo spinal cord environment. Our results show that human embryonic stem cell- and hiPSC-derived astrocyte progenitors survive long-term after spinal cord engraftment and differentiate to astrocytes in vivo with few cells from other lineages present. Gene profiling of the transplanted cells demonstrates the astrocyte progenitors continue to mature in vivo and upregulate a variety of astrocyte-specific genes. Given this mature astrocyte gene profile, this work highlights hiPSCs as a tool to investigate disease-related astrocyte biology using in vivo disease modeling with significant implications for human neurological diseases currently lacking animal models.
Rhizoma paridis is widely used in the traditional Chinese medicine for the treatment of cancers. Steroidal saponins, including diosgenyl saponins and the characterized component pennogenyl saponins, are regarded as the main active components of R. paridis. To date, quite a bit of research has been published which attempt to explore the in vivo anticancer effects and the underlying mechanisms of pennogenyl saponins, compounds which are present at quite low levels in the plant. In the present study, two known pennogenyl saponins (PS1 and PS2) were isolated from R. paridis axialis and identified by spectral techniques. The anti-cancer activity of these two pennogenyl saponins was investigated in nude mice bearing human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) HepG2 xenografts. PS1 or PS2 (purity &gt;98%, 1 or 3mg/kg) was administered by intraperitoneal injection, respectively. The specimens of HepG2 xenografts were removed for mechanistic study. The current results indicated that both PS1 and PS2 dose-dependently prevented the growth of HepG2 xenografts. Western blotting analysis showed that the anticancer effects of these two monomers were associated with apoptosis induction and proliferation inhibition through activation of both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent apoptotic pathways, regulation of mitogen-related protein kinase pathway and inhibition of PI3K/Akt pathway. The present data suggest, for the first time, that PS1 and PS2 effectively inhibit human HCC progression through regulation of the signal pathways associated with apoptosis and proliferation, and have the potential for the treatment of HCC.
Understanding potential sex differences in repeated stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis habituation could provide insight into the sex-biased prevalence of certain affective disorders such as anxiety and depression. Therefore in these studies, male and female rats were exposed to 30min of either audiogenic or restraint stress daily for 10 days in order to determine whether sex regulates the extent to which HPA axis hormone release is attenuated upon repeated homotypic stressor presentation. In response to the initial exposure, both stressors robustly increased plasma concentrations of both adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone (CORT) in both sexes. Acutely, females displayed higher ACTH and CORT concentrations following restraint stress, whereas males exhibited higher hormone concentrations following loud noise stress. HPA axis hormone responses to both stressors decreased incrementally over successive days of exposure to each respective stressor. Despite the differential effect of sex on acute hormone responses, the extent to which HPA axis hormone response was attenuated did not differ between male and female animals following either stressor. Furthermore, ACTH and CORT responses to a novel environment were not affected by prior exposure to stress of either modality in either male or female rats. These experiments demonstrate that despite the acute stress response, male and female rats exhibit similar habituation of HPA axis hormones upon repeated homotypic stressor presentations, and that exposure to repeated stress does not produce exaggerated HPA axis hormone responses to a novel environment in either female or male rats.











To clarify the basis of limited responses in children and adolescents to antidepressant treatments considered standard in the treatment of adult major depressive disorder, juvenile Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to 21-day treatment with dissimilar antidepressant drugs fluoxetine, imipramine, or vehicle control. Total RNA was extracted from brain frontal cortices and hybridized to the Affymetrix 230.2 chip. A total of 18 microarrays were analyzed (i.e., six biological replicates in three treatment groups). Transcripts identified were validated using Taqman real-time quantitative PCR methodology, and the relative expression of each gene was also determined. In both the imipramine- and fluoxetine-treated animals, expression of six genes was down-regulated (ANOVA-filtered gene expression data using dChip [version 2005]): Gpd1; Lrrn3; Sult1A1; Angptl4; Mt1a; Unknown. Furthermore, four genes were over-expressed: P4Ha1; RDG1311476; Rgc32; and SLC25A18-like by both imipramine and fluoxetine. These data demonstrate that antidepressant drugs interfere with the expression of genes involved in cell signaling, survival, and protein metabolism. Our results show that antidepressants regulate the induction of highly specific transcriptional programs in the developing frontal cortex. These findings provide novel insights into the long-term molecular actions of antidepressant drugs in the developing brain.
Although not commonly used in behavior tests guinea pigs may offer subtle behavior repertoires that better mimic human activity and warrant study. To test this, 31 Hartley guinea pigs (male, 200-250 g) were evaluated in PhenoTyper cages using the video-tracking EthoVision XT 7.0 software. Results showed that guinea pigs spent more time in the hidden zone (small box in corner of cage) than the food/water zone, or arena zone. Guinea pigs exhibited thigmotaxis (a wall following strategy) and were active throughout the light and dark phases. Eating and drinking occurred throughout the light and dark phases. An injection of 0.25 mg/kg SCH23390, the dopamine D1 receptors (D1R) antagonist, produced significant decreases in time spent in the hidden zone. There were insignificant changes in time spent in the hidden zone for guinea pigs treated with 7.5 mg SKF38393 (D1R agonist), 1.0 mg/kg sulpiride (D2R antagonist), and 1.0 or 10.0 mg/kg methamphetamine. Locomotor activity profiles were unchanged after injections of saline, SKF38393, SCH23390, and sulpiride. By contrast, a single injection or repeated administration for 7 days of low-dose methamphetamine induced transient hyperactivity but this declined to baseline levels over the 22-h observation period. Guinea pigs treated with high-dose methamphetamine displayed sustained hyperactivity and travelled significantly greater distances over the circadian cycle. Subsequent 7-day treatment with high-dose methamphetamine induced motor sensitization and significant increases in total distances moved relative to single drug injections or saline controls. These results highlight the versatility and unique features of the guinea pig for studying brain-behavior interactions.
The Texas Legislature in 2013 approved the creation of two new medical schools, both of which recently appointed their inaugural deans. Cuban native and psychiatrist Francisco Fernandez, MD, returns to Texas this spring as the founding dean of the School of Medicine at The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, which merges UT Pan American in Edinburg, UT Brownsville, and the UT Regional Academic Health Center in Harlingen. He was professor and chair of the Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurosciences Department at the University of South Florida (USF) College of Medicine in Tampa, Fla. California neurologist and stroke specialist Clay Johnston, MD, left his position as associate vice chancellor of research at the University of California, San Francisco - a university dedicated exclusively to health sciences - to head up the new Dell Medical School at The University of Texas at Austin in March.
In patients with multiple myeloma (MM), the bone marrow (BM) contains hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and non-hematopoietic cells. HSCs are able to give rise to all types of mature blood cells, while the non hematopoietic component includes mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), fibroblasts, osteoblasts, osteoclasts, chondroclasts, endothelial cells, endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs), B and T lymphocytes, NK cells, erythrocytes, megakaryocytes, platelets, macrophages and mast cells. All of these cells form specialized &quot;niches&quot; in the BM microenvironment which are close to the vasculature (&quot;vascular niche&quot;) or to the endosteum (&quot;osteoblast niche&quot;). The &quot;vascular niche&quot; is rich in blood vessels where endothelial cells and mural cells (pericytes and smooth muscle cells) create a microenvironment that affects the behavior of several stem and progenitor cells. The vessel wall serves as an independent niche for the recruitment of endothelial progenitor cells, MSCs and HSCs. The activation by angiogenic factors and inflammatory cytokines switch the &quot;vascular niche&quot; to promote MM tumor growth and spread. This review will focus on the mechanisms involved in the generation of signals released by endothelial cells in the &quot;vascular niche&quot; that promote tumor growth and spread in MM.  2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

The car dependence of people living in contemporary cities is a major concern for policy makers, who often find it difficult to persuade people into more sustainable transport modes. By contrast, recent insights from neuroscience have shown that a broad spectrum of behaviors can become habitual and, thus, resistant to change. Here, we outline the potential of collaboration between neuroscience and human geography aiming at a better understanding of habits that determine everyday commuting routines.
Recent systematic reviews and empirical evaluations of the cognitive sciences literature suggest that publication and other reporting biases are prevalent across diverse domains of cognitive science. In this review, we summarize the various forms of publication and reporting biases and other questionable research practices, and overview the available methods for probing into their existence. We discuss the available empirical evidence for the presence of such biases across the neuroimaging, animal, other preclinical, psychological, clinical trials, and genetics literature in the cognitive sciences. We also highlight emerging solutions (from study design to data analyses and reporting) to prevent bias and improve the fidelity in the field of cognitive science research.
The efficient selection of behaviorally relevant objects from cluttered environments supports our everyday goals. Attentional selection has typically been studied in search tasks involving artificial and simplified displays. Although these studies have revealed important basic principles of attention, they do not explain how the brain efficiently selects familiar objects in complex and meaningful real-world scenes. Findings from recent neuroimaging studies indicate that real-world search is mediated by 'what' and 'where' attentional templates that are implemented in high-level visual cortex. These templates represent target-diagnostic properties and likely target locations, respectively, and are shaped by object familiarity, scene context, and memory. We propose a framework for real-world search that incorporates these recent findings and specifies directions for future study.
Two recent studies examine neural activity predictive of upcoming choices during value-guided choice. Their results may be cast in light of a competitive winner-take-all decision network. This viewpoint places certain decision variables not as features of the environment to be encoded, but as emergent properties of network activity.
The unfolded protein response (UPR) mediates the adaptation of the secretory pathway (SP) to fluctuations in cellular protein demand or to environmental variations. Recently, drug screenings have confirmed the therapeutic potential of targeting the UPR in cancer models. However, the UPR may not be the only druggable target of the SP. Moreover, recent studies have revealed other contributions of the SP to cancer development. This article does not intend to describe the well-established implication of UPR signaling pathways in cancer cell life and cell decision, but rather aims at defining the concept of 'tumor cell secretory addiction', from molecular, cellular, and therapeutic perspectives. Furthermore, the implication of UPR modulations in this context will be discussed.
The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is emerging as a new important species for studying mechanisms of brain function and dysfunction. Focusing on selected central nervous system (CNS) disorders (brain cancer, epilepsy, and anxiety) and using them as examples, we discuss the value of zebrafish models in translational neuroscience. We further evaluate the contribution of zebrafish to neuroimaging, circuit level, and drug discovery research. Outlining the role of zebrafish in modeling a wide range of human brain disorders, we also summarize recent applications and existing challenges in this field. Finally, we emphasize the potential of zebrafish models in behavioral phenomics and high-throughput genetic/small molecule screening, which is critical for CNS drug discovery and identifying novel candidate genes.
Telomeres, ribonucleoprotein complexes that cap eukaryotic chromosomes, typically shorten in leukocytes with aging. Aging is a primary risk factor for neurodegenerative disease (ND), and a common assumption has arisen that leukocyte telomere length (LTL) can serve as a predictor of neurological disease. However, the evidence for shorter LTL in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's patients is inconsistent. The diverse causes of telomere shortening may explain variability in LTL between studies and individuals. Additional research is needed to determine whether neuronal and glial telomeres shorten during aging and in neurodegenerative disorders, if and how LTL is related to brain cell telomere shortening, and whether telomere shortening plays a causal role in or exacerbates neurological disorders.
Humans have exceptionally long lifespans compared with other mammals. However, our longevity evolved when our ancestors had two copies of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) 4 allele, a genotype that leads to a high risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), cardiovascular disease, and increased mortality. How did human aging evolve within this genetic constraint? Drawing from neuroscience, anthropology, and brain-imaging research, we propose the hypothesis that the evolution of increased physical activity approximately 2 million years ago served to reduce the amyloid plaque and vascular burden of APOE 4, relaxing genetic constraints on aging. This multidisciplinary approach links human evolution with health and provides a complementary perspective on aging and neurodegenerative disease that may help identify key mechanisms and targets for intervention.
During rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, skeletal muscles are almost paralyzed. However, in REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), which is a rare neurological condition, muscle atonia is lost, leaving afflicted individuals free to enact their dreams. Although this may sound innocuous, it is not, given that patients with RBD often injure themselves or their bed-partner. A major concern in RBD is that it precedes, in 80% of cases, development of synucleinopathies, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). This link suggests that neurodegenerative processes initially target the circuits controlling REM sleep. Clinical and basic neuroscience evidence indicates that RBD results from breakdown of the network underlying REM sleep atonia. This finding is important because it opens new avenues for treating RBD and understanding its link to neurodegenerative disorders.
Given the fact that increased dietary intake of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs; a family of environmental toxicants) leads to the formation and development of colon tumors, the ability of the gastrointestinal tract to process these compounds is important from the viewpoint of toxicity/carcinogenesis. Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP), a prototypical PAH compound is released into the environment from automobile exhausts, cigarette smoke, and industrial emissions. Additionally, considerable intake of BaP is expected in people who consume barbecued foods and a diet rich in saturated fat. In exposed animals, BaP becomes activated to potent metabolites that interfere with target organ function and as a consequence cause toxicity and cancer. Therefore, knowledge of BaP metabolism in the digestive system will be of importance in the management of cancers of the digestive tract. The objective of our study was to study the metabolism of BaP by subcellular fractions (nuclear, cytosolic, mitochondrial, and microsomal) of the gastrointestinal tract and liver. Subcellular fractions were isolated by differential centrifugation from the stomach, jejunum, colon, and liver tissues of Apc(Min) mice that received a subchronic dose of 25 g/kg BaP. The fractions were incubated with 1 and 3 M BaP. Subsequent to incubation, samples were extracted with ethyl acetate and analyzed for BaP metabolites by reverse-phase HPLC equipped with fluorescence detection. Among the different fractions tested, microsomal BaP metabolism was higher than the rest of the fractions in all the samples analyzed. Additionally, a BaP exposure concentration-dependent effect on metabolite levels generated by the subcellular fractions was recorded. The BaP metabolites identified were the following: BaP-9,10-diol; BaP-4,5-diol; BaP-7,8-diol; 9(OH) BaP; 3(OH) BaP; BaP-3,6-dione; and BaP-6,12-dione. While the diol group of metabolites was frequently detected, among diones, the 3,6 and 6,12-dione metabolites were infrequently detected. Among the diol metabolites, the preponderance of BaP-7,8-dihydrodiol is interesting, since this metabolite is a precursor to the DNA-reactive BaP-7,8-dihydrodiol epoxide (BPDE) that has been linked to BaP-induced cancer.
Though intrinsically of much higher frequency than open-field blast overpressures, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) pulse trains can be frequency modulated to produce a radiation pressure having a similar form. In this study, 1.5-MHz HIFU pulse trains of 1-ms duration were applied to intact skulls of mice in vivo and resulted in blood-brain barrier disruption and immune responses (astrocyte reactivity and microglial activation). Analyses of variance indicated that 24 h after HIFU exposure, staining density for glial fibrillary acidic protein was elevated in the parietal and temporal regions of the cerebral cortex, corpus callosum and hippocampus, and staining density for the microglial marker, ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule, was elevated 2 and 24 h after exposure in the corpus callosum and hippocampus (all statistical test results, p &lt; 0.05). HIFU shows promise for the study of some bio-effect aspects of blast-related, non-impact mild traumatic brain injuries in animals.
Squirrel monkeys (Saimiri spp) are one of the most consistently used New World primates in biomedical research and are increasingly being used in neuroscience research, including models of drug abuse and addiction. Spontaneous neurologic disease in the squirrel monkey is uncommonly reported but includes various infectious diseases as well as cerebral amyloidosis. Hypernatremia is an extremely serious condition of hyperosmolarity that occurs as a result of water loss, adipsia, or excess sodium intake. Neurologic effects of hypernatremia reflect the cellular dehydration produced by the shift of water from the intracellular fluid space into the hypertonic extracellular fluid space. Severe hypernatremia may result in cerebrocortical laminar necrosis (polioencephalomalacia) in human patients as well as in a number of domestic species, including pigs, poultry, and ruminants. We report the clinical, histopathologic, and immunohistochemical findings of polioencephalomalacia in 13 squirrel monkeys. Polioencephalomalacia in these animals was associated with hypernatremia that was confirmed by serum levels of sodium greater than 180 mmol/L (reference range, 134.0-154.0 mmol/L [mEq/L]). All animals had concurrent diseases or experimental manipulation that predisposed to adipsia. Immunohistochemical investigation using antibodies to neuronal nuclei (NeuN), CNPase, Iba-1, and CD31 revealed necrosis of predominantly cerebral cortical layers 3, 4, and 5 characterized by neuronal degeneration and loss, oligodendrocytic loss, microglial proliferation, and vascular reactivity. The squirrel monkey is exquisitely sensitive to hyperosmolar metabolic disruption and it is associated with laminar cortical necrosis.
Astrocytes protect neurons but also evoke a proinflammatory response to injury and viral infections including HIV. We investigated the mechanism of HIV-1 infection in primary astrocytes, which showed minimal but productive viral infection independent of CXCR4. As with ectopic-CD4-expressing astrocytes, lysosomotropic agents led to increased HIV-1 infection in wild-type but not Rabs 5, 7, and 11-ablated astrocytes. Instead, HIV-1 infection was decreased in Rab-depleted astrocytes, corroborating viral entry by endocytosis. HIV-1 produced persistent infection in astrocytes (160 days); no evidence of latent infection was seen. Notably, one caveat is that endosomal modifiers enhanced wild-type HIV-1 infection (M- and T-tropic) in astrocytes, suggesting endocytic entry of the virus. Impeding endocytosis by inhibition of Rab 5, 7 or 11 will inhibit HIV infection in astrocytes. Although the contribution of such low-level infection in astrocytes to neurological complications is unclear, it may serve as an elusive viral reservoir in the central nervous system.

Release from rods is triggered by the opening of L-type Ca2+ channels that lie beneath synaptic ribbons. After exocytosis, vesicles are retrieved by compensatory endocytosis. Previous work showed that endocytosis is dynamin-dependent in rods but dynamin-independent in cones. We hypothesized that fast endocytosis in rods may also differ from cones in its dependence upon the amount of Ca2+ influx and/or endocytic load. We measured exocytosis and endocytosis from membrane capacitance (C m) changes evoked by depolarizing steps in voltage clamped rods from tiger salamander retinal slices. Similar to cones, the time constant for endocytosis in rods was quite fast, averaging &lt;200 ms. We manipulated Ca2+ influx and the amount of vesicle release by altering the duration and voltage of depolarizing steps. Unlike cones, endocytosis kinetics in rods slowed after increasing Ca2+ channel activation with longer step durations or more strongly depolarized voltage steps. Endocytosis kinetics also slowed as Ca2+ buffering was decreased by replacing BAPTA (10 or 1 mM) with the slower Ca2+ buffer EGTA (5 or 0.5 mM) in the pipette solution. These data provide further evidence that endocytosis mechanisms differ in rods and cones and suggest that endocytosis in rods is regulated by both endocytic load and local Ca2+ levels.
The parallel processing of visual features by distinct neuron populations is a central characteristic of the mammalian visual system. In the A laminae of the cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN), parallel processing streams originate from two principal neuron types, called X and Y cells. Disruption of visual experience early in life by monocular deprivation has been shown to alter the structure and function of Y cells, but the extent to which deprivation influences X cells remains less clear. A transcription factor, FoxP2, has recently been shown to selectively label X cells in the ferret dLGN and thus provides an opportunity to examine whether monocular deprivation alters the soma size of X cells. In this study, FoxP2 labeling was examined in the dLGN of normal and monocularly deprived cats. The characteristics of neurons labeled for FoxP2 were consistent with FoxP2 being a marker for X cells in the cat dLGN. Monocular deprivation for either a short (7 days) or long (7 weeks) duration did not alter the density of FoxP2-positive neurons between nondeprived and deprived dLGN layers. However, for each deprived animal examined, measurement of the cross-sectional area of FoxP2-positive neurons (X cells) revealed that within deprived layers, X cells were smaller by approximately 20% after 7 days of deprivation, and by approximately 28% after 7 weeks of deprivation. The observed alteration to the cross-sectional area of X cells indicates that perturbation of this major pathway contributes to the functional impairments that develop from monocular deprivation.
Studies in normally sighted people suggest that scene recognition is based on global physical properties and can be accomplished by the low resolution of peripheral vision. We examine the contribution of peripheral and central vision in scene gist recognition in patients with central vision loss and age-matched controls. Twenty-one patients with neovascular age related macular degeneration (AMD), with a visual acuity lower than 20/50, and 15 age-matched normally sighted controls participated in a natural/urban scene categorization task. The stimuli were colored photographs of natural scenes presented randomly at one of five spatial locations of a computer screen: centre, top left, top right, bottom left and bottom right at 12 eccentricity. Sensitivity (d') and response times were recorded. Normally sighted people exhibited higher sensitivity and shorter response times when the scene was presented centrally than for peripheral pictures. Sensitivity was lower and response times were longer for people with AMD than for controls at all spatial location. In contrast to controls patients were not better for central than for peripheral pictures. The results of normally sighted controls indicate that scene categorization can be accomplished by the low resolution of peripheral vision but central vision remains more efficient than peripheral vision for scene gist recognition. People with central vision loss likely categorized scenes on the basis of low frequency information both in normal peripheral vision and in low acuity central vision.






The purinergic signalling system, which utilises ATP, related nucleotides and adenosine as transmitter molecules, appeared very early in evolution: release mechanisms and ATP-degrading enzymes are operative in bacteria, and the first specific receptors are present in single cell eukaryotic protozoa and algae. Further evolution of the purinergic signalling system resulted in the development of multiple classes of purinoceptors, several pathways for release of nucleotides and adenosine, and a system of ectonucleotidases controlling extracellular levels of purinergic transmitters. The purinergic signalling system is expressed in virtually all types of tissues and cells, where it mediates numerous physiological reactions and contributes to pathological responses in a variety of diseases.
























Dendritic spines are basic units of neuronal information processing and their structure is closely reflected in their function. Defects in synaptic development are common in neurodevelopmental disorders, making detailed knowledge of age-dependent changes in spine morphology essential for understanding disease mechanisms. However, little is known about the functionally important fine-morphological structures, such as spine necks, due to the limited spatial resolution of conventional light microscopy. Using stimulated emission depletion microscopy (STED), we examined spine morphology at the nanoscale during normal development in mice, and tested the hypothesis that it is impaired in a mouse model of fragile X syndrome (FXS). In contrast to common belief, we find that, in normal development, spine heads become smaller, while their necks become wider and shorter, indicating that synapse compartmentalization decreases substantially with age. In the mouse model of FXS, this developmental trajectory is largely intact, with only subtle differences that are dependent on age and brain region. Together, our findings challenge current dogmas of both normal spine development as well as spine dysgenesis in FXS, highlighting the importance of super-resolution imaging approaches for elucidating structure-function relationships of dendritic spines.
A remarkable feature of early neuronal networks is their endogenous ability to generate spontaneous rhythmic electrical activity independently of any external stimuli. In the mouse embryonic SC, this activity starts at an embryonic age of  12 d and is characterized by bursts of action potentials recurring every 2-3 min. Although these bursts have been extensively studied using extracellular recordings and are known to play an important role in motoneuron (MN) maturation, the mechanisms driving MN activity at the onset of synaptogenesis are still poorly understood. Because only cholinergic antagonists are known to abolish early spontaneous activity, it has long been assumed that spinal cord (SC) activity relies on a core network of MNs synchronized via direct cholinergic collaterals. Using a combination of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and extracellular recordings in E12.5 isolated mouse SC preparations, we found that spontaneous MN activity is driven by recurrent giant depolarizing potentials. Our analysis reveals that these giant depolarizing potentials are mediated by the activation of GABA, glutamate, and glycine receptors. We did not detect direct nAChR activation evoked by ACh application on MNs, indicating that cholinergic inputs between MNs are not functional at this age. However, we obtained evidence that the cholinergic dependency of early SC activity reflects a presynaptic facilitation of GABA and glutamate synaptic release via nicotinic AChRs. Our study demonstrates that, even in its earliest form, the activity of spinal MNs relies on a refined poly-synaptic network and involves a tight presynaptic cholinergic regulation of both GABAergic and glutamatergic inputs.
The genetic and molecular pathways driving human brain white matter (WM) development are only beginning to be discovered. Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) have been implicated in myelination in animal models and humans. The biosynthesis of LC-PUFAs is regulated by the fatty acid desaturase (FADS) genes, of which a human-specific haplotype is strongly associated with -3 and -6 LC-PUFA concentrations in blood. To investigate the relationship between LC-PUFA synthesis and human brain WM development, we examined whether this FADS haplotype is associated with age-related WM differences across the life span in healthy individuals 9-86 years of age (n = 207). Diffusion tensor imaging was performed to measure fractional anisotropy (FA), a putative measure of myelination, of the cerebral WM tracts. FADS haplotype status was determined with a single nucleotide polymorphism (rs174583) that tags this haplotype. Overall, normal age-related WM differences were observed, including higher FA values in early adulthood compared with childhood, followed by lower FA values across older age ranges. However, individuals homozygous for the minor allele (associated with lower LC-PUFA concentrations) did not display these normal age-related WM differences (significant age  genotype interactions, p(corrected) &lt; 0.05). These findings suggest that LC-PUFAs are involved in human brain WM development from childhood into adulthood. This haplotype and LC-PUFAs may play a role in myelin-related disorders of neurodevelopmental origin.
Parallel visual pathways are initiated at the first retinal synapse by signaling between the rod and cone photoreceptors and two general classes of bipolar cells. For normal function, ON or depolarizing bipolar cells (DBCs) require the G-protein-coupled receptor, mGluR6, an intact G-protein-coupled cascade and the transient receptor potential melastatin 1 (TRPM1) cation channel. In addition, another seven transmembrane protein, GPR179, is required for DBC function and recruits the regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins, RGS7 and RGS11, to the dendritic tips of the DBCs. Here we use the Gpr179(nob5) mouse, which lacks GPR179 and has a no b-wave electroretinogram (ERG) phenotype, to demonstrate that despite the absence of both GPR179 and RGS7/RGS11, a small dark-adapted ERG b-wave remains and can be enhanced with long duration flashes. Consistent with the ERG, the mGluR6-mediated gating of TRPM1 can be evoked pharmacologically in Gpr179(nob5) and RGS7(-/-)/RGS11(-/-) rod BCs if strong stimulation conditions are used. In contrast, direct gating of TRPM1 by capsaicin in RGS7(-/-)/RGS11(-/-) and WT rod BCs is similar, but severely compromised in Gpr179(nob5) rod BCs. Noise and standing current analyses indicate that the remaining channels in Gpr179(nob5) and RGS7(-/-)/RGS11(-/-) rod BCs have a very low open probability. We propose that GPR179 along with RGS7 and RGS11 controls the ability of the mGluR6 cascade to gate TRPM1. In addition to its role in localizing RGS7 and RGS11 to the dendritic tips, GPR179 via a direct interaction with the TRPM1 channel alters its ability to be gated directly by capsaicin.
Macrophages in the injured spinal cord arise from resident microglia and infiltrating, peripherally derived monocytes. It is still not clear if macrophages derived from these two populations differ in their roles after CNS injury. The aims of this study are to investigate the phagocytic response and clearance of damaged axons and tissue debris by these distinct subsets of macrophages and assess their viability after spinal cord injury (SCI). The lysozyme M EGFP-knockin mouse tags hematogenous macrophages, but not microglia. Using a combination of immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and neuronal tracing techniques, we show that microglia contact damaged axons early (24 h) after SCI and are the main type of macrophage to contain phagocytic material at 3 d. Thereafter, infiltrating macrophages become the predominant cell in contact with degenerating axons and contain more phagocytic material, which in contrast to microglia, persists for up to 42 d. Furthermore, after phagocytosis of myelin in vitro, bone marrow-derived macrophages are much more susceptible to apoptotic and necrotic cell death than CNS microglia, which is mirrored in vivo with apoptotic TUNEL-positive cells of infiltrating macrophage origin. This work suggests that microglia play a major role in the early response to SCI, by phagocytosing damaged and degenerating tissue, processing phagocytic material efficiently, and remaining viable. Later, macrophages of peripheral origin contribute predominantly to phagocytosis but are less efficient at processing CNS debris, and their death, in situ, may contribute to the secondary damage after CNS injury.
Glutamate receptors mediate excitatory neurotransmission. A very prevalent type of glutamate receptor in the neocortex is the AMPA receptor (AMPAR). AMPARs mediate fast synaptic transmission and their functionality depends on the subunit composition. In primary visual cortex (area V1), the density and subunit composition of AMPARs differ among cortical layers and among cell types. The AMPARs expressed by the different types of inhibitory interneurons, which are crucial for network function, have not yet been characterized systematically. We investigated the distribution of AMPAR subunits in macaque V1 for three distinct subpopulations of inhibitory interneurons: parvalbumin-immunoreactive (PV-IR) interneurons, calbindin-immunoreactive (CB-IR) interneurons, and calretinin-immunoreactive (CR-IR) interneurons. We found that PV-IR cells, which have previously been identified as fast spiking, show high expression of the GluA2 and GluA3 subunits. In contrast, CB-IR and CR-IR cells, which tend to be intermediate spiking, show high expression of the GluA1 and GluA4 subunits. Thus, our data demonstrate that the expression of AMPARs divides inhibitory interneurons in macaque V1 into two categories that are compatible with existing classification methods based on calcium-binding proteins and firing behavior. Moreover, our findings suggest new approaches to target the different inhibitory interneuron classes pharmacologically in vivo.
The associative processes that support free-operant instrumental avoidance behavior are still unknown. We used a revaluation procedure to determine whether the performance of an avoidance response is sensitive to the current value of the aversive, negative reinforcer. Rats were trained on an unsignaled, free-operant lever press avoidance paradigm in which each response avoided or escaped shock and produced a 5 s feedback stimulus. The revaluation procedure consisted of noncontingent presentations of the shock in the absence of the lever either paired or unpaired with systemic morphine and in a different cohort with systemic d-amphetamine. Rats were then tested drug free during an extinction test. In both the d-amphetamine and morphine groups, pairing of the drug and shock decreased subsequent avoidance responding during the extinction test, suggesting that avoidance behavior was sensitive to the current incentive value of the aversive negative reinforcer. Experiment 2 used central infusions of D-Ala(2), NMe-Phe(4), Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (DAMGO), a mu-opioid receptor agonist, in the periacqueductal gray and nucleus accumbens shell to revalue the shock. Infusions of DAMGO in both regions replicated the effects seen with systemic morphine. These results are the first to demonstrate the impact of revaluation of an aversive reinforcer on avoidance behavior using pharmacological agents, thereby providing potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of avoidance behavior symptomatic of anxiety disorders.
Recent research has shown that the degree to which speakers and listeners exhibit similar brain activity patterns during human linguistic interaction is correlated with communicative success. Here, we used an intersubject correlation approach in fMRI to test the hypothesis that a listener's ability to predict a speaker's utterance increases such neural coupling between speakers and listeners. Nine subjects listened to recordings of a speaker describing visual scenes that varied in the degree to which they permitted specific linguistic predictions. In line with our hypothesis, the temporal profile of listeners' brain activity was significantly more synchronous with the speaker's brain activity for highly predictive contexts in left posterior superior temporal gyrus (pSTG), an area previously associated with predictive auditory language processing. In this region, predictability differentially affected the temporal profiles of brain responses in the speaker and listeners respectively, in turn affecting correlated activity between the two: whereas pSTG activation increased with predictability in the speaker, listeners' pSTG activity instead decreased for more predictable sentences. Listeners additionally showed stronger BOLD responses for predictive images before sentence onset, suggesting that highly predictable contexts lead comprehenders to preactivate predicted words.
Over the last decade, synchronized resting-state fluctuations of blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals between remote brain areas [so-called BOLD resting-state functional connectivity (rs-FC)] have gained enormous relevance in systems and clinical neuroscience. However, the neural underpinnings of rs-FC are still incompletely understood. Using simultaneous positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance imaging we here directly investigated the relationship between rs-FC and local neuronal activity in humans. Computational models suggest a mechanistic link between the dynamics of local neuronal activity and the functional coupling among distributed brain regions. Therefore, we hypothesized that the local activity (LA) of a region at rest determines its rs-FC. To test this hypothesis, we simultaneously measured both LA (glucose metabolism) and rs-FC (via synchronized BOLD fluctuations) during conditions of eyes closed or eyes open. During eyes open, LA increased in the visual system, and the salience network (i.e., cingulate and insular cortices) and the pattern of elevated LA coincided almost exactly with the spatial pattern of increased rs-FC. Specifically, the voxelwise regional profile of LA in these areas strongly correlated with the regional pattern of rs-FC among the same regions (e.g., LA in primary visual cortex accounts for  50%, and LA in anterior cingulate accounts for  20% of rs-FC with the visual system). These data provide the first direct evidence in humans that local neuronal activity determines BOLD FC at rest. Beyond its relevance for the neuronal basis of coherent BOLD signal fluctuations, our procedure may translate into clinical research particularly to investigate potentially aberrant links between local dynamics and remote functional coupling in patients with neuropsychiatric disorders.
Oscillatory interference models account for the spatial firing properties of grid cells in terms of neuronal oscillators with frequencies modulated by the animal's movement velocity. The phase of such a &quot;velocity-controlled oscillator&quot; (VCO) relative to a baseline (theta-band) oscillation tracks displacement along a preferred direction. Input from multiple VCOs with appropriate preferred directions causes a grid cell's grid-like firing pattern. However, accumulating phase noise causes the firing pattern to drift and become corrupted. Here we show how multiple redundant VCOs can automatically compensate for phase noise. By entraining the baseline frequency to the mean VCO frequency, VCO phases remain consistent, ensuring a coherent grid pattern and reducing its spatial drift. We show how the spatial stability of grid firing depends on the variability in VCO phases, e.g., a phase SD of 3 ms per 125 ms cycle results in stable grids for 1 min. Finally, coupling N VCOs with similar preferred directions as a ring attractor, so that their relative phases remain constant, produces grid cells with consistently offset grids, and reduces VCO phase variability of the order square root of N. The results suggest a viable functional organization of the grid cell network, and highlight the benefit of integrating displacement along multiple redundant directions for the purpose of path integration.
Behavioral and physiological coupling between energy balance and fluid homeostasis is critical for survival. The orexigenic hormone ghrelin has been shown to stimulate the secretion of the osmoregulatory hormone vasopressin (VP), linking nutritional status to the control of blood osmolality, although the mechanism of this systemic crosstalk is unknown. Here, we show using electrophysiological recordings and calcium imaging in rat brain slices that ghrelin stimulates VP neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) in a nutritional state-dependent manner by activating an excitatory GABAergic synaptic input via a retrograde neuronal-glial circuit. In slices from fasted rats, ghrelin activation of a postsynaptic ghrelin receptor, the growth hormone secretagogue receptor type 1a (GHS-R1a), in VP neurons caused the dendritic release of VP, which stimulated astrocytes to release the gliotransmitter adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP activation of P2X receptors excited presynaptic GABA neurons to increase GABA release, which was excitatory to the VP neurons. This trans-neuronal-glial retrograde circuit activated by ghrelin provides an alternative means of stimulation of VP release and represents a novel mechanism of neuronal control by local neuronal-glial circuits. It also provides a potential cellular mechanism for the physiological integration of energy and fluid homeostasis.
Evaluating the costs and benefits of our own choices is central to most forms of decision-making and its mechanisms in the brain are becoming increasingly well understood. To interact successfully in social environments, it is also essential to monitor the rewards that others receive. Previous studies in nonhuman primates have found neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) that signal the net value (benefit minus cost) of rewards that will be received oneself and also neurons that signal when a reward will be received by someone else. However, little is understood about the way in which the human brain engages in cost-benefit analyses during social interactions. Does the ACC signal the net value (the benefits minus the costs) of rewards that others will receive? Here, using fMRI, we examined activity time locked to cues that signaled the anticipated reward magnitude (benefit) to be gained and the level of effort (cost) to be incurred either by a subject themselves or by a social confederate. We investigated whether activity in the ACC covaries with the net value of rewards that someone else will receive when that person is required to exert effort for the reward. We show that, although activation in the sulcus of the ACC signaled the costs on all trials, gyral ACC (ACC(g)) activity varied parametrically only with the net value of rewards gained by others. These results suggest that the ACC(g) plays an important role in signaling cost-benefit information by signaling the value of others' rewards during social interactions.
Musicians have been used extensively to study neural correlates of long-term practice, but no studies have investigated the specific effects of training musical creativity. Here, we used human functional MRI to measure brain activity during improvisation in a sample of 39 professional pianists with varying backgrounds in classical and jazz piano playing. We found total hours of improvisation experience to be negatively associated with activity in frontoparietal executive cortical areas. In contrast, improvisation training was positively associated with functional connectivity of the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortices, dorsal premotor cortices, and presupplementary areas. The effects were significant when controlling for hours of classical piano practice and age. These results indicate that even neural mechanisms involved in creative behaviors, which require a flexible online generation of novel and meaningful output, can be automated by training. Second, improvisational musical training can influence functional brain properties at a network level. We show that the greater functional connectivity seen in experienced improvisers may reflect a more efficient exchange of information within associative networks of importance for musical creativity.
Elevation of inflammatory cytokines in the striatum precedes symptoms in a number of motor dysfunctions, but it is unclear whether this is part of the disease process or an adaptive response to the pathology. In pyramidal cells, TNF drives the insertion of AMPA-type glutamate receptors into synapses, and contributes to the homeostatic regulation of circuit activity in the developing neocortex. Here we demonstrate that in the mouse dorsolateral striatum, TNF drives the internalization of AMPARs and reduces corticostriatal synaptic strength, dephosphorylates DARPP-32 and GluA1, and results in a preferential removal of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs. Striatal TNF signaling appears to be adaptive in nature, as TNF is upregulated in response to the prolonged blockade of D2 dopamine receptors and is necessary to reduce the expression of extrapyramidal symptoms induced by chronic haloperidol treatment. These data indicate that TNF is a regulator of glutamatergic synaptic strength in the adult striatum in a manner distinct from its regulation of synapses on pyramidal cells and mediates an adaptive response during pathological conditions.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with pathological assembly states of amyloid- protein (A). A-related synaptotoxicity can be blocked by anti-prion protein (PrP) antibodies, potentially allowing therapeutic targeting of this aspect of AD neuropathogenesis. Here, we show that intravascular administration of a high-affinity humanized anti-PrP antibody to rats can prevent the plasticity-disrupting effects induced by exposure to soluble AD brain extract. These results provide an in vivo proof of principle for such a therapeutic strategy.
A fundamental question in sensory neuroscience is how parallel processing is implemented at the level of molecular and circuit mechanisms. In the retina, it has been proposed that distinct OFF cone bipolar cell types generate fast/transient and slow/sustained pathways by the differential expression of AMPA- and kainate-type glutamate receptors, respectively. However, the functional significance of these receptors in the intact circuit during light stimulation remains unclear. Here, we measured glutamate release from mouse bipolar cells by two-photon imaging of a glutamate sensor (iGluSnFR) expressed on postsynaptic amacrine and ganglion cell dendrites. In both transient and sustained OFF layers, cone-driven glutamate release from bipolar cells was blocked by antagonists to kainate receptors but not AMPA receptors. Electrophysiological recordings from bipolar and ganglion cells confirmed the essential role of kainate receptors for signaling in both transient and sustained OFF pathways. Kainate receptors mediated responses to contrast modulation up to 20 Hz. Light-evoked responses in all mouse OFF bipolar pathways depend on kainate, not AMPA, receptors.


As part of a project to express chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) in neurons of the central nervous system, we have inserted a modified ChABC gene into an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector and injected it into the vibrissal motor cortex in adult rats to determine the extent and distribution of expression of the enzyme. A similar vector for expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) was injected into the same location. For each vector, two versions with minor differences were used, giving similar results. After 4 weeks, the brains were stained to show GFP and products of chondroitinase digestion. Chondroitinase was widely expressed, and the AAV-ChABC and AAV-GFP vectors gave similar expression patterns in many respects, consistent with the known projections from the directly transduced neurons in vibrissal motor cortex and adjacent cingulate cortex. In addition, diffusion of vector to deeper neuronal populations led to labelling of remote projection fields which was much more extensive with AAV-ChABC than with AAV-GFP. The most notable of these populations are inferred to be neurons of cortical layer 6, projecting widely in the thalamus, and neurons of the anterior pole of the hippocampus, projecting through most of the hippocampus. We conclude that, whereas GFP does not label the thinnest axonal branches of some neuronal types, chondroitinase is efficiently secreted from these arborisations and enables their extent to be sensitively visualised. After 12 weeks, chondroitinase expression was undiminished.

Sciatic nerve injury has been used for over a century to investigate the process of nerve damage, to assess the absolute and relative capacity of the central and peripheral nervous systems to recover after axotomy, and to understand the development of chronic pain in many pathologies. Here we provide a historical review of the contributions of this experimental model to our current understanding of fundamental questions in the neurosciences, and an assessment of its continuing capacity to address these and future problems. We describe the different degrees of nerve injury - neurapraxia, axonotmesis, neurotmesis - together with the consequences of selective damage to the different functional and anatomic components of this nerve. The varied techniques used to model different degrees of nerve injury and their relationship to the development of neuropathic pain states are considered. We also provide a detailed anatomical description of the sciatic nerve from the spinal cord to the peripheral branches in the leg. A standardized protocol for carrying out sciatic nerve axotomy is proposed, with guides to assist in the accurate and reliable dissection of the peripheral and central branches of the nerve. Functional, histological, and biochemical criteria for the validation of the injury are described. Thus, this paper provides a review of the principal features of sciatic nerve injury, presents detailed neuroanatomical descriptions of the rat's inferior limb and spine, compares different modes of injury, offers material for training purposes, and summarizes the immediate and longterm consequences of damage to the sciatic nerve.





Mitigating secondary delayed neuronal injury has been a therapeutic strategy for minimizing neurological symptoms after several types of brain injury. Interestingly, secondary neuronal loss appeared to be closely related to functional loss and/or death of astrocytes. In the brain damage induced by agonists of two glutamate receptors, N-ethyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and kainic acid (KA), NMDA induced neuronal death within 3 h, but did not increase further thereafter. However, in the KA-injected brain, neuronal death was not obviously detectable even at injection sites at 3 h, but extensively increased to encompass the entire hemisphere at 7 days. Brain inflammation, a possible cause of secondary neuronal damage, showed little differences between the two models. Importantly, however, astrocyte behavior was completely different. In the NMDA-injected cortex, the loss of glial fibrillary acidic protein-expressing (GFAP+) astrocytes was confined to the injection site until 7 days after the injection, and astrocytes around the damage sites showed extensive gliosis and appeared to isolate the damage sites. In contrast, in the KA-injected brain, GFAP+ astrocytes, like neurons, slowly, but progressively, disappeared across the entire hemisphere. Other markers of astrocytes, including S100, glutamate transporter EAAT2, the potassium channel Kir4.1 and glutamine synthase, showed patterns similar to that of GFAP in both NMDA- and KA-injected cortexes. More importantly, astrocyte disappearance and/or functional loss preceded neuronal death in the KA-injected brain. Taken together, these results suggest that loss of astrocyte support to neurons may be a critical cause of delayed neuronal death in the injured brain.




External hydrocephalus (EH) is a benign clinical entity in which macrocephaly is associated with an increase in volume of the subarachnoid space, especially overlying both frontal lobes, and a normal or only slight increase in volume of the lateral ventricles. Several pathogenic hypotheses have been proposed but the most accredited theory seems to be delayed maturation of the arachnoid villi. There is a consensus that this is a benign entity, correlated to a familial predisposition and, in some cases, inheritance. CT and MRI are very important to make a diagnosis but also to establish the prognosis in patients who encounter the rare complications such as subdural haematomas. In conclusion, CT and MRI can provide a highly accurate diagnosis in these patients, allowing a preliminary assessment of the prognosis, particularly regarding the enlarged subarachnoid space limits and the &quot;cortical vein&quot; sign which can predict a further complication. These results are obtained with the same examination performed in a standard CT or MRI study of the brain and no injection of contrast medium is needed.
Coexistence of orbital cavernous hemangioma and other vascular malformations is unusual and few cases have been reported. We describe the clinical and radiological features of three cases of orbital cavernous hemangiomas associated with other vascular malformations, selected reviewing a series of 181 cases of cavernous hemangiomas. All patients were males (age ranging from 43 to 67 years) without vascular systemic disorders and/or a clinical syndrome. They experienced slow progressive exophthalmos. One of them developed acute pulsatile proptosis (case 2), while another experienced slow progressive diplopia (case 3). In one case vascular lesions were bilateral (case 3) and in two patients two different lesions coexisted in the same orbit (cases 1 and 2). All patients underwent surgical excision, which was partial in two cases. Two patients had cavernous hemangiomas in association with a venous malformation (a varix in case 1 and a lymphangioma in case 2), while in the other ones (case 3) cavernous hemangioma was associated with a low-flow arteriovenous malformation. No patient denied visual impairment postoperatively. Few cases of orbital cavernous hemangiomas coexisting with other vascular malformations have been reported in the literature. This entity seems to be an association of different variants of orbital vascular malformations, presenting with a wide spectrum of clinical forms and probably with the same pathogenesis.
Anterior temporal lobectomy is an effective treatment for drug-resistant epilepsy of temporal origin, although new language impairment may develop after surgery. Since correlations between functional connectivity (FC) MRI of the language network and verbal-IQ performance before surgery have recently been reported, we investigated the existence of correlations between the preoperative FC of the language network and post-operative verbal-IQ decline. FC between nodes of the language network of the two hemispheres (Interhemispheric-FC) and within nodes of the left hemisphere (LH-FC) and language lateralization indexes were estimated in five right-handed patients with non-tumoral left temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing anterior temporal lobectomy. Correlations between preoperative FC measures and lateralization indexes, and the post-operative (12 months) neuropsychological verbal-IQ decline were investigated. Verbal-IQ decline was inversely correlated with the degree of left lateralization and directly correlated with the strength of Interhemispheric-FC. No significant correlation was found between LH-FC and post-operative verbal-IQ change. The results from this limited number of patients suggest that a stronger preoperative connectivity between homologue regions, associated with the absence of a definite hemispheric lateralization, appears to be an unfavorable prognostic biomarker.

The striatum is the primary input station of the basal ganglia network, playing an essential role in sensorimotor, cognitive and motivational functions. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) were identified in nerve terminals of the striatum, where they are known to modulate neurotransmitter release, therefore critically regulating striatal functions. However, the subsynaptic (i.e. pre-, post- and extra-synaptic) localization of the different nAChRs subtypes present in the striatal synapses is still unclear, which might be associated with different roles in the control of synaptic transmission. In the present study we analyzed the subsynaptic distribution of particularly relevant nAChRs subunits, namely 7, 6, 4 and 2, in rat and mice striatal synapses (synaptosomes). In the rodent striatum we found that the 7 subunit, which predominantly forms homomeric nAChRs, was mainly present at the presynaptic active zone. The 4 and 2 subunits displayed a similar distribution, being primarily present at the presynaptic and/or extrasynaptic zones (mice and rats, respectively), which was expected since these two subunits together form heteropentameric nAChRs. In contrast, the 6 subunit was mainly present in the postsynaptic fraction, albeit being also present in pre- and extra-synaptic fractions. Altogether, this work details the striatal subsynaptic distribution of some of the main nAChRs subunits, underlining the possible relevance of striatal nAChRs in controlling neurotransmission, with potential relevance for Parkinson's disease, nicotine addiction and other dopaminergic disorders.
Inbred strains of mice, such as C57Bl/6, have become preferred animal models for neurobehavioral studies. A main goal in creating inbred lines is to reduce the effects of individual genetic variation on observed phenotypes. Most studies use only males, and there is increasing evidence that agonistic interactions within the home cage may produce systematic variability in behavior and brain function. Previous studies have demonstrated that the outcomes of aggressive interactions have powerful effects on the brain and behavior, but less is known about whether aggressive interactions within the home cage have similar effects. We assessed group-housed laboratory mice C57Bl/6 for competitive ability and then tested the extent high competitive ability (CA) or low CA was related to gene and protein expression within related pathways. We focused on a broad social behavior network, including the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). High CA mice had significantly more corticotropin releasing hormone receptor 2 (CRHR2) and estrogen receptor alpha (ESR1) mRNA in the BNST. Our data suggest a simple test of CA could yield valuable information that could be used to reduce error variance and increase power in neurobiological studies using mice.
Short duration immobilization stress (IS) in younger rats is followed by a sleep rebound involving slow wave sleep (SWS) and, more particularly, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. This rebound, expressing the ability of the brain to confront a stress challenge, is now accepted as a marker of the homeostasis. In older rats (24-25 months), however, an IS of 1h is not followed by a sleep rebound. To determine whether this impairment is reversible, we analyzed the effects of the antidepressant agomelatine, on stress-related sleep rebound in older animals. Older and younger (3-5 months) rats were equipped with electroencephalographic (EEG) and electromyographic (EMG) electrodes and polygraphic recordings were achieved under basal conditions with a digitized set-up. Older rats were pretreated with agomelatine (40mg/kg/day) for 3 days, with IS applied on the third day, whereas younger rats were only subjected to IS. Polygraphic recordings achieved under basal conditions confirmed the conventional impairments of the sleep/wake architecture in older animals, including decreased delta power, shortened REM sleep bouts, and modified sleep/wake circadian rhythms. Older rats pretreated with agomelatine for 3 days showed a reversal of the deficit observed in the beta-1, but not in the delta, EEG power band. Application of an IS to older rats after agomelatine pretreatment resulted in a REM sleep rebound in response to stress. These findings indicate that agomelatine, by improving beta-1 EEG power band and by inducing stress-related sleep rebound in older animals, contributes to the homeostasis maintenance.
Brain edema is among the major complications in children with bacterial meningitis. Aquaporins are integral membrane pore proteins that form channels to regulate cellular water content. Aquaporin-4 (AQP4), which is enriched in parts of astrocytic membranes that are apposed to pial or perivascular basal laminae, is the predominant aquaporin in the central nervous system. Dystroglycan is among the proteins that are responsible for the site-specific anchorage of AQP4. To elucidate the role of AQP4 in the development of brain edema induced by meningitis, a model of bacterial meningitis was established by injecting group B -hemolytic Streptococci into the cerebrospinal fluid of three-week-old rats. The brain water content increased in this model compared with that in the control group. The expression of AQP4 and dystroglycan was examined by Western blot and the degradation route of AQP4 was investigated by double immunofluorescence labeling. Western blot results showed that the expression of AQP4 and dystroglycan in rat brain increased in the meningitis model. Meanwhile, AQP4 was co-localized with the marker of lysosome in this model, indicating that the lysosome is involved in AQP4 degradation.
Synaptic degeneration is one of the earliest hallmarks of Alzheimer disease. The molecular mechanism underlying this degeneration is not fully elucidated but one key player appears to be the synaptotoxic amyloid -peptide (A). The exact localization of the production of A and the mechanisms whereby A is released remain elusive. We have earlier shown that A can be produced in crude synaptic vesicle fractions and it has been reported that increased synaptic activity results in increased secreted but decreased intracellular A levels. Therefore, we considered whether A could be produced in synaptic vesicles and/or released through the same mechanisms as neurotransmitters in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Small amounts of A were found to be produced in pure synaptic vesicle preparations. We also studied the release of glutamate and A from rat cortical nerve terminals (synaptosomes). We found that large amounts of A were secreted from non-stimulated synaptosomes, from which glutamate was not released. On the contrary, we could not detect any differences in A release between non-stimulated synaptosomes and synaptosomes stimulated with KCl or 4-aminopyridine, whereas glutamate release was readily inducible in this system. To conclude, our results indicate that the major release mechanism of A from isolated nerve terminals differs from the synaptic release of glutamate and that the activity-dependent increase of secreted A, reported by several groups using intact cells, is likely dependent on post-synaptic events, trafficking and/or protein synthesis mechanisms.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between olfaction and motion sickness. A sample of 18 participants was recruited and submitted to three sessions of nauseogenic stimulations: off vertical axis rotation (OVAR), performed under conditions of olfactory stimulation with limonene (pleasant odor), petrol (unpleasant odor) or distilled water (as a control). Motion sickness was assessed before, during and after each OVAR session. In addition, participants were asked to evaluate the intensity and hedonic valence of four odors (geraniol, limonene, butanol, petrol) as well as distilled water (as a control) before and after each OVAR session. Our analysis showed that OVAR has consistently increased the induced-motion sickness. However the addition of an odor that is pleasant or unpleasant during the rotation did not affect the occurrence of motion sickness symptoms compared to the control condition. Our results also showed that intensity of odors was significantly increased after OVAR and the intensity was significantly higher for unpleasant odors than for pleasant one. For the hedonicity, OVAR made unpleasant odors more unpleasant (p&lt;0.0001) while it made limonene odor slightly more pleasant (p&lt;0.05). The present study highlighted the lack of influence of odors in motion-induced sickness but an impact of a nauseogenic test on olfactory perception.
Previous psychological studies have shown that make-up enhances facial attractiveness. Although neuroimaging evidence indicates that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) shows greater activity for faces of attractive people than for those of unattractive people, there is no direct evidence that the OFC also shows greater activity for the face of an individual wearing make-up than for the same face without make-up. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we investigated neural activity while subjects viewed 144 photographs of the same faces with and without make-up (48 with make-up, 48 without make-up, and 48 scrambled photographs) and assigned these faces an attractiveness rating. The behavioral data showed that the faces with make-up were rated as more attractive than those without make-up. The imaging data revealed that the left OFC and the right hippocampus showed greater activity for faces with make-up than for those without make-up. Furthermore, the activities of the right anterior cingulate cortex, left hippocampus, and left OFC increased with increasing facial attractiveness resulting from cosmetics use. These results provide direct evidence of the neural underpinnings of cosmetically enhanced facial attractiveness.
An individual's susceptibility to everyday cognitive failure constitutes a risk factor for physical and mental health. Different factors such as inefficiency of executive functioning and high trait impulsivity have been shown to affect this susceptibility. Furthermore, twin studies indicate a high heritability of failure susceptibility revealing genetic variables as an important biological influence. We tested for a molecular genetic association between variants on the dopamine D2 receptor gene (DRD2), which relate to executive control and impulsivity, and susceptibility to everyday cognitive failure as assessed by the cognitive failure questionnaire (CFQ) in a sample of N=500 (n=140 male, n=360 female, mean age M=24.62, SD=7.98) healthy participants of central European descent. Moreover, we assessed whether trait impulsivity as measured by the Barratt impulsiveness scale (BIS-11) qualifies as a mediator between DRD2 variants and CFQ scores. We found a positive association between DRD2 variants and the CFQ. This effect was in part yet not completely mediated by trait impulsivity. The DRD2 C/C variant constitutes a protective factor for the susceptibility to everyday cognitive failure. Results point towards at least two biopsychological pathways that may explain the observed effect.
Enteric glial cells are increasingly acknowledged as important partners of enteric neurons in the control of gastrointestinal function. They share morphological features and expression of antigenic markers with astrocytes of the central nervous system. Recently, aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L1 (Aldh1L1) has been proposed as a novel and specific marker for astrocytes. Taking the known similarities between astrocytes and enteric glia into account, we sought to investigate whether enteric glial cells also express Aldh1L1. To this end, we performed immunostaining on preparations of myenteric plexus obtained from adult Aldh1L1-eGFP bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice and found that the Aldh1L1 promoter is indeed active in enteric glia, albeit mainly in cells residing outside the myenteric ganglia. Apart from enteric glia, we also observed eGFP expression in interstitial cells of Cajal. Furthermore, myenteric ganglia of the large intestine contained eGFP positive neurons. Taken together, our data indicate that Aldh1L1 is not a suitable marker for enteric glial cells.
In the ventrolateral hypothalamus, the PV1-nucleus is defined by its population of parvalbumin-expressing neurons. During embryogenesis, the ventrolateral hypothalamus is colonized also by Foxb1-expressing neurons. In adult Foxb1-EGFP mice, many immunofluorescent neurons were found within the region that is occupied by the PV1-nucleus. They formed a cloud around the axial cord of the parvalbumin-immunopositive cells, which they greatly outnumber (3:1). Only a small proportion of the neurons in the PV1-nucleus co-expressed both parvalbumin and Foxb1. In the light of these findings, a redesignation of this lateral hypothalamic structure as the PV1-Foxb1 nucleus would more accurately reflect its specific biochemical properties.
In animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), the serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) system is thought to play an important pathophysiological role in the development and expression of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID). These abnormal involuntary movements are associated with the unregulated release of dopamine from 5-HT fibres. Thus, modulating the false neurotransmitter release from 5-HT neurons, via attuning the serotonin tone, may be a potential therapeutic strategy in the treatment of LID. In this study, we investigated the effects of the primary precursor of 5-HT, l-tryptophan, on LID in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated macaques. l-tryptophan treatment (0.5-5.0g) dramatically abolished the expression of LID. However, this effect was associated with worsening of the therapeutic effects of L-DOPA. These behavioural data further support the role of the serotonergic system in expression of LID, highlighting the difficult challenge of targeting 5-HT neurons for alleviating dyskinesia and maintaining the therapeutic response of L-DOPA.





Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is the treatment of choice in severe geriatric depression. High remission rates may be influenced by specific brain morphology characteristic of geriatric depression. Our objective was to identify the relationship between brain structure, symptom profile, and ECT response. In a naturalistic cohort of 55 patients with a major depressive disorder, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed before ECT. Voxel-based morphometry was applied to determine regional differences in gray matter (GM) volume between patients and 23 matched healthy controls. Depressed patients with psychotic symptoms showed significantly higher remission rates and smaller regional GM volume of the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). Patients with late onset depression showed smaller regional GM volume of the bilateral lateral temporal cortex. Larger size of response in the whole patient group was related to smaller pretreatment regional GM volume of the right lateral temporal cortex, whereas faster speed of response was related to smaller pretreatment regional GM volume of the right IFG. ECT is most effective in depressed patients with psychotic symptoms. In this study the presence of psychotic symptoms was related to pretreatment smaller GM volume of the left IFG and bilateral temporal cortex. Smaller volume of the IFG pretreatment was related to faster treatment response, and smaller volume of the right lateral temporal cortex pretreatment was related to larger response to ECT. These results are possibly explained by the connectivity between these brain regions and an interconnected network that is particularly activated by the ECT-induced seizures.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is recognized as a key structure in the pathogenesis of depression. This study aimed to investigate the resting-state regional activity and functional connectivity of the ACC in a community sample of elderly individuals with subthreshold depression (StD). We employed resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging to acquire data from 19 elderly subjects with StD and 18 normal controls. We used a regional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) analysis and a correlation-based functional connectivity (FC) approach to explore changes in local activity and remote connectivity of the ACC in StD. Compared to controls, the StD group demonstrated increased ALFF in the anterior portion of the dorsal ACC (adACC). The adACC also displayed increased FC with the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and supplementary motor area and decreased FC with several subcortical regions. The FC levels of the adACC displayed a trending correlation with self-reported depressive symptoms. This study is the first to reveal the ACC changes in resting-state activity and connectivity in the elderly with StD, suggesting that altered ALFF/FC of the adACC is an important feature of StD.
Although diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have reported fractional anisotropy (FA) abnormalities in multiple white matter (WM) regions in schizophrenia, relationship between abnormal FA and negative symptoms has not been fully explored. DTI data were acquired from twenty-four patients with chronic schizophrenia and twenty-five healthy controls. Regional brain abnormalities were evaluated by conducting FA comparisons in the cerebral and each lobar WMs between groups. Focal abnormalities were also evaluated with a voxel-wise tract specific method. Associations between structural WM changes and negative symptoms were assessed using the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS). The patient group showed decreased FA in the cerebrum, especially in the frontal lobe, compared with controls. A voxel-wise analysis showed FA decreases in almost all WM tracts in schizophrenia. Correlation analyses demonstrated negative relationships between FA in the cerebrum, particularly in the left hemisphere, and SANS global and global rating scores (Anhedonia-Asociality, Attention, and Affective-Flattening), and also associations between FA of left frontal lobe and SANS global score, Anhedonia-Asociality, and Attention. This study demonstrates that patients with chronic schizophrenia evince widespread cerebral FA abnormalities and that these abnormalities, especially in the left hemisphere, are associated with negative symptoms.
Schizophrenia patients show significant subcortical brain abnormalities. We examined these abnormalities using automated image analysis software and provide effect size estimates for prospective multi-scanner schizophrenia studies. Subcortical and intracranial volumes were obtained using FreeSurfer 5.0.0 from high-resolution structural imaging scans from 186 schizophrenia patients (mean ageS.D.=38.911.6, 78% males) and 176 demographically similar controls (mean ageS.D.=37.511.2, 72% males). Scans were acquired from seven 3-Tesla scanners. Univariate mixed model regression analyses compared between-group volume differences. Weighted mean effect sizes (and number of subjects needed for 80% power at =0.05) were computed based on the individual single site studies as well as on the overall multi-site study. Schizophrenia patients have significantly smaller intracranial, amygdala, and hippocampus volumes and larger lateral ventricle, putamen and pallidum volumes compared with healthy volunteers. Weighted mean effect sizes based on single site studies were generally larger than effect sizes computed based on analysis of the overall multi-site sample. Prospectively collected structural imaging data can be combined across sites to increase statistical power for meaningful group comparisons. Even when using similar scan protocols at each scanner, some between-site variance remains. The multi-scanner effect sizes provided by this study should help in the design of future multi-scanner schizophrenia imaging studies.
Evidence exists for late-life depression (LLD) as both a prodrome of and risk factor for Alzheimers disease (AD). The underlying neurobiological mechanisms are poorly understood. Impaired peripheral glucose metabolism may explain the association between depression and AD given the connection between type 2 diabetes mellitus with both depression and AD. Positron emission tomography (PET) measures of cerebral glucose metabolism are sensitive to detecting changes in neural circuitry in LLD and AD. Fasting serum glucose (FSG) in non-diabetic young (YC; n=20) and elderly controls (EC; n=12) and LLD patients (n=16) was correlated with PET scans of cerebral glucose metabolism on a voxel-wise basis. The negative correlations were more extensive in EC versus YC and in LLD patients versus EC. Increased FSG correlated with decreased cerebral glucose metabolism in LLD patients to a greater extent than in EC in heteromodal association cortices involved in mood symptoms and cognitive deficits observed in LLD and dementia. Negative correlations in YC were observed in sensory and motor regions. Understanding the neurobiological consequences of diabetes and associated conditions will have substantial public health significance given that this is a modifiable risk factor for which prevention strategies could have an important impact on lowering dementia risk.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has a typical onset during childhood or adolescence. Although recent in-vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) studies report gray matter metabolite abnormalities in children and adolescents with OCD, there are no existing (1)H-MRS studies that measure white matter (WM) metabolite levels in this population. In the present study, we measured metabolite levels in the left and right prefrontal WM (LPFWM and RPFWM, respectively) of psychotropic-nave children and adolescents with OCD (LPFWM: N=15, mean age 13.32.4 years; right RPFWM: N=14, mean age 13.02.3 years) and healthy controls (LPFWM: N=17, mean age 11.82.7 years; RPFWM: N=18, mean age 12.22.8 years). Spectra were acquired using a 3T single voxel PRESS sequence (1.52.02.0cm(3)). When age and sex effects were controlled, OCD patients had higher levels of RPFWM choline and N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA). In addition, RPFWM levels of NAA, creatine and myo-inositol were positively and significantly correlated with severity of OCD symptoms. In summary, this is the first published study of WM metabolite levels in children and adolescents with OCD. Our preliminary findings lend further support to the previous findings of WM abnormalities in OCD.
Studies of adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have suggested that they have deficient response inhibition, but findings concerning the neural correlates of inhibition in this patient population are inconsistent. We used the Stop-Signal task and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare neural activation associated with response inhibition between adults with ADHD (N=35) and healthy comparison subjects (N=62), and in follow-up tests to examine the effect of current medication use and symptom severity. There were no differences in Stop-Signal task performance or neural activation between ADHD and control participants. Among the ADHD participants, however, significant differences were associated with current medication, with individuals taking psychostimulants (N=25) showing less stopping-related activation than those not currently receiving psychostimulant medication (N=10). Follow-up analyses suggested that this difference in activation was independent of symptom severity. These results provide evidence that deficits in inhibition-related neural activation persist in a subset of adult ADHD individuals, namely those individuals currently taking psychostimulants. These findings help to explain some of the disparities in the literature, and advance our understanding of why deficits in response inhibition are more variable in adult, as compared with child and adolescent, ADHD patients.
The Mood and Feelings Questionnaire (MFQ) is widely used for the assessment of depression in adolescents. The main aim of this study was to examine the concurrent and predictive validity of a composite of four MFQ items related to suicidal ideation using an interview measure of suicidal ideation. A prospective 3-wave high-risk study of offspring of parents with recurrent depression was used including 294 families where children were initially aged 9-17 years. Measures included four parent and child rated MFQ items assessing suicide-related ideation (referred to here as the &quot;MFQ-SI&quot;) and a clinically-defined interview measure of suicidal ideation. A parent-child combined MFQ-SI subscale performed well as a screening tool against the interview measure of suicidal ideation (baseline area under the curve (AUC) (95% CI):0.92 (0.85-1.00)). Longitudinally, this measure showed reasonable predictive validity against future suicidal ideation (AUC (95% CI):0.73 (0.58-0.88)). Lastly, there was evidence that a child-rated MFQ-SI scale performed better than a parent-rated one in detecting concurrent suicidal ideation. Longitudinally, both parent and child scales showed reasonable predictive validity against future suicidal ideation. In summary, a brief screen using four MFQ items related to suicidal ideation performs well in identifying concurrent and future suicidal ideation in high-risk adolescents.
Previous research on substance use disorders (SUD) has yielded conflicting results concerning whether alexithymia is a state or trait, raising the question of how alexithymia should be addressed in the treatment of SUD-patients. The absolute and relative stabilities of alexithymia were assessed using the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20) and its subscales. In total, 101 patients with SUD were assessed twice during a 3-week inpatient detoxification period while controlling for withdrawal symptoms and personality disorder traits. The relative stability of the total TAS-20 and subscales was moderate to high but showed remarkable differences between baseline low, moderate, and high alexithymic patients. A small reduction in the mean levels of the total TAS-20 scores and those of one subscale revealed the absence of absolute stability. The levels of alexithymia were unrelated to changes in withdrawal symptoms, including anxiety- and depression-like symptoms. The differences between low, moderate, and high alexithymic patients in terms of the change in alexithymia scores between baseline and follow-up indicated a strong regression to the mean. The findings suggest that alexithymia in SUD patients as measured using the TAS-20 is both a state and trait phenomenon and does not appear to be related to changes in anxiety- and depression-like symptoms.
The aim of the present work was to examine the influence of reactive and regulatory temperament on compulsive buying (CB) in a sample of 102 patients (79 women, 23 men) with clinical CB. All participants answered the Compulsive Buying Scale (CBS), the Behavioral Inhibition System and Behavioral Activation System Scales (BIS/BAS), and the Effortful Control subscale (ATQ-EC) of the Adult Temperament Questionnaire-Short Form. Based on previous studies demonstrating that depression and materialism are linked with CB, in addition, the Patient Health Questionnaire depression scale (PHQ-9) and the Materialistic Values Scale (MVS) were administered. CBS scores were significantly correlated with the MVS, PHQ-9, and BAS scores. The findings of the hierarchical regression analysis, however, indicated that in the present sample of treatment-seeking patients the only significant association was found between CB and depression. The results highlight the prominent role of depression in CB. There is a need for longitudinal studies in order to answer the question whether depression is the cause or the consequence of CB.
The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) analyzes the ability of participants to sacrifice immediate rewards in view of a long term gain. Anorexia Nervosa (AN) in addition to weight loss and body image disturbances is also characterized by the tendency to make decisions that may result in long-term negative outcomes. Studies that analyzed IGT performance in patients with AN were not consistent with each other. Fifteen adolescents with AN and 15 matched controls carried out IGT after being clinically and neuropsychologically evaluated. An interesting generalized estimating equation approach showed that four independent clinical variables, and not the group, explained IGT performances, such as blocks repetition, anxiety, psychogenic eating disorders and self transcendence. The impairment of decision making is not related to the diagnosis of AN, but it is driven by high levels of anxiety and self transcendence. Instead, some psychogenic eating disorders traits, related to illness severity, positively affected IGT performance in the whole sample. IGT impairment in AN found by prior studies could be related to these clinical features which are not always taken into account.
Preliminary research suggests neuropsychological deficits in youth with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) similar to those in adults; however, small samples and methodological confounds limit interpretation. We aimed to examine the rates and clinical correlates of cognitive sequelae in youth with OCD, focusing on executive functioning and memory abilities. Youth ages 7-17 years with OCD (N=96) completed a hypothesis-driven neuropsychological battery (including the Rey-Osterreith Complex Figure, California Verbal Learning Test, and subtests of the Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System and Wide Range Assessment of Memory and Learning) that primarily assessed executive functioning, memory and processing speed. Cognitive sequelae were identified in 65% of youth (37% using a more stringent definition of impairment). Magnitude of cognitive sequelae was not associated with OCD severity or age; however, greater neuropsychological impairments were found amongst youth prescribed atypical neuroleptics and those diagnosed with comorbid tic disorders. Comorbidity burden was associated with presence of neuropsychological impairment, but was not specific to any single test. Findings suggest that the presence of cognitive sequelae is prevalent amongst treatment-seeking youth with OCD. Deficits were found in executive functioning and non-verbal memory performance but these impairments were not associated with OCD severity.







We present an interesting case of combined vitamin A and copper deficiency after a history of gastric bypass surgery where symptoms improved after parenteral copper and vitamin A treatment. Gastric bypass surgery as a cause of fat soluble vitamin deficiency is generally under-reported. Copper deficiency has been reported after gastric bypass surgery. Vitamin A deficiency after gastric bypass surgery has also been reported in the literature, but the reported cases again fall below the actual figures. B12 and folate deficiencies can produce a type of myelopathy similar to that produced by copper deficiency, and differentiation on the basis of laboratory tests, neurophysiology and improvement of symptoms after replacement therapy might be the hallmark of diagnosis. Combinations of vitamin deficiencies were previously reported, but no cases of combined vitamin A and copper deficiency could be found in the literature.

Ketamine, an analgesic/anesthetic drug, is increasingly popular in clinical practice due to its analgesic properties and importance for emergency procedures. The impact of ketamine on basal excitatory synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity are not yet fully understood. Therefore we investigated the effects of different concentrations of ketamine on basal excitatory synaptic transmission and on two forms of synaptic plasticity: paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) and long-term potentiation (LTP). Evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) were recorded in Schaffer fiber - CA1 pyramid synapses of mouse hippocampal slices and the initial slope of the fEPSP was measured to estimate the percentage of inhibition of the basal synaptic transmission. Presynaptic volley amplitude, PPF and LTP induction and maintenance were also calculated. For basal synaptic transmission and PPF increasing concentrations of ketamine (1, 3, 10, 30, 100, 200, 300 and 600M) were applied to each slice and for LTP individual slices were used for each concentration (3, 10, 30 or 100M). Clinically relevant concentrations of ketamine decreased LTP in a concentration-dependent manner without changing PPF, whereas basal excitatory synaptic transmission and presynaptic volley amplitude was affected only with high concentrations of ketamine (300 and 600M). These results allow dissociating the blockade of LTP from a reduced synaptic input in the action of clinically relevant concentrations of ketamine in the CA1 region of the mouse hippocampus. Moreover, this work shows that the effects of ketamine on LTP and on basal synaptic transmission are dependent of the concentration used.
Recent studies have reported that early right anterior negativity (ERAN) and its magnetic counterpart (ERANm) are evoked by harmonic irregularity in Western tonal music; however, those studies did not control for differences of melody. Because melody and harmony have an interdependent relationship and because melody (in this study melody is represented by the highest voice part) in a chord sequence may dominate, there is controversy over whether ERAN (or ERANm) changes arise from melody or harmony differences. To separate the effects of melody differences and harmonic irregularity on ERANm responses, we designed two magnetoencephalography experiments and behavioral test. Participants were presented with three types of chord progression sequences (Expected, Intermediate, and Unexpected) with different harmonic regularities in which melody differences were or were not controlled. In the uncontrolled melody difference experiment, the unexpected chord elicited a significantly largest ERANm, but in the controlled melody difference experiment, the amplitude of the ERANm peak did not differ among the three conditions. However, ERANm peak latency was delayed more than that in the uncontrolled melody difference experiment. The behavioral results show the difference between the two experiments even if harmonic irregularity was discriminated in the uncontrolled melody difference experiment. In conclusion, our analysis reveals that there is a relationship between the effects of harmony and melody on ERANm. Hence, we suggest that a melody difference in a chord progression is largely responsible for the observed changes in ERANm, reaffirming that melody plays an important role in the processing of musical syntax.




























Contrary to trends in most other diseases, the average age of ischaemic stroke onset is decreasing, owing to a rise in the incidence of stroke among 'young' individuals (under 50 years of age). This Review provides a critical overview of the risk factors and aetiology of young ischaemic stroke and addresses its long-term prognosis, including cardiovascular risk, functional outcome and psychosocial consequences. We highlight the diminishing role of 'rare' risk factors in the pathophysiology of young stroke in light of the rising prevalence of 'traditional' vascular risk factors in younger age groups. Long-term prognosis is of particular interest to young patients, because of their long life expectancy and major responsibilities during a demanding phase of life. The prognosis of young stroke is not as favourable as previously thought, with respect either to mortality or cardiovascular disease or to psychosocial consequences. Therefore, secondary stroke prevention is probably a life-long endeavour in most young stroke survivors. Due to under-representation of young patients in past trials, new randomized trials focusing on this age group are needed to confirm the benefits of long-term secondary preventive medication. The high prevalence of poor functional outcome and psychosocial problems warrants further study to optimize treatment and rehabilitation for these young patients.












Human Bestrophin 1 (hBest1) is a calcium-activated chloride channel that regulates neuronal excitability, synaptic activity, and retinal homeostasis. Mutations in hBest1 cause the autosomal-dominant Best macular dystrophy (BMD). Because hBest1 mutations cause BMD, but a knockout does not, we wondered if hBest1 mutants exert a dominant negative effect through interaction with other calcium-activated chloride channels, such as hBest2, 3, or 4, or transmembrane member 16A (TMEM16A), a member of another channel family. The subunit architecture of Best channels is debated, and their ability to form heteromeric channel assemblies is unclear. Using single-molecule subunit analysis, we find that each of hBest1, 2, 3, and 4 forms a homotetrameric channel. Despite considerable conservation among hBests, hBest1 has little or no interaction with other hBests or mTMEM16A. We identify the domain responsible for assembly specificity. This domain also plays a role in channel function. Our results indicate that Best channels preferentially self-assemble into homotetramers.
Although disorders of consciousness (DOCs) demonstrate widely varying clinical presentations and patterns of structural injury, global down-regulation and bilateral reductions in metabolism of the thalamus and frontoparietal network are consistent findings. We test the hypothesis that global reductions of background synaptic activity in DOCs will associate with changes in the pattern of metabolic activity in the central thalamus and globus pallidus. We compared 32 [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose PETs obtained from severely brain-injured patients (BIs) and 10 normal volunteers (NVs). We defined components of the anterior forebrain mesocircuit on high-resolution T1-MRI (ventral, associative, and sensorimotor striatum; globus pallidus; central thalamus and noncentral thalamus). Metabolic profiles for BI and NV demonstrated distinct changes in the pattern of uptake: ventral and association striatum (but not sensorimotor) were significantly reduced relative to global mean uptake after BI; a relative increase in globus pallidus metabolism was evident in BI subjects who also showed a relative reduction of metabolism in the central thalamus. The reversal of globus pallidus and central thalamus profiles across BIs and NVs supports the mesocircuit hypothesis that broad functional (or anatomic) deafferentation may combine to reduce central thalamus activity and release globus pallidus activity in DOCs. In addition, BI subjects showed broad frontoparietal metabolic down-regulation consistent with prior studies supporting the link between central thalamic/pallidal metabolism and down-regulation of the frontoparietal network. Recovery of left hemisphere frontoparietal metabolic activity was further associated with command following.
Models of visual attention hold that top-down signals from frontal cortex influence information processing in visual cortex. It is unknown whether situations exist in which visual cortex actively participates in attentional selection. To investigate this question, we simultaneously recorded neuronal activity in the frontal eye fields (FEF) and primary visual cortex (V1) during a curve-tracing task in which attention shifts are object-based. We found that accurate performance was associated with similar latencies of attentional selection in both areas and that the latency in both areas increased if the task was made more difficult. The amplitude of the attentional signals in V1 saturated early during a trial, whereas these selection signals kept increasing for a longer time in FEF, until the moment of an eye movement, as if FEF integrated attentional signals present in early visual cortex. In erroneous trials, we observed an interareal latency difference because FEF selected the wrong curve before V1 and imposed its erroneous decision onto visual cortex. The neuronal activity in visual and frontal cortices was correlated across trials, and this trial-to-trial coupling was strongest for the attended curve. These results imply that selective attention relies on reciprocal interactions within a large network of areas that includes V1 and FEF.
Drug discovery in psychiatry has been limited to chemical modifications of compounds originally discovered serendipitously. Therefore, more mechanism-oriented strategies of drug discovery for mental disorders are awaited. Schizophrenia is a devastating mental disorder with synaptic disconnectivity involved in its pathophysiology. Reduction in the dendritic spine density is a major alteration that has been reproducibly reported in the cerebral cortex of patients with schizophrenia. Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia-1 (DISC1), a factor that influences endophenotypes underlying schizophrenia and several other neuropsychiatric disorders, has a regulatory role in the postsynaptic density in association with the NMDA-type glutamate receptor, Kalirin-7, and Rac1. Prolonged knockdown of DISC1 leads to synaptic deterioration, reminiscent of the synaptic pathology of schizophrenia. Thus, we tested the effects of novel inhibitors to p21-activated kinases (PAKs), major targets of Rac1, on synaptic deterioration elicited by knockdown expression of DISC1. These compounds not only significantly ameliorated the synaptic deterioration triggered by DISC1 knockdown but also partially reversed the size of deteriorated synapses in culture. One of these PAK inhibitors prevented progressive synaptic deterioration in adolescence as shown by in vivo two-photon imaging and ameliorated a behavioral deficit in prepulse inhibition in adulthood in a DISC1 knockdown mouse model. The efficacy of PAK inhibitors may have implications in drug discovery for schizophrenia and related neuropsychiatric disorders in general.
Study design:Experimental neurophysiological study.Objectives:The hepatic myelopathy (HM) is characterized by progressive weakness and spasticity of the lower extremities, while there are only a few reports of sensory impairment. However, sensory function has been poorly explored in HM. We believe that an electrophysiological assessment of dorsal columns by somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and of cortico-spinal lateral tracts by motor evoked potentials (MEPs) should be of considerable value in the functional evaluation of the spinal cord involvement in patients with HM.Setting:Salzburg (Austria) and Merano (Italy).Methods:Eight patients diagnosed with HM were studied with MEPs and SEPs. Neurological examination revealed different degrees of cortico-spinal tract involvement in all patients and sensory abnormalities in three patients.Results:Central motor conduction to lower limb muscles was abnormal in all patients, while central sensory conduction was abnormal in seven out of the eight patients. Both central motor and sensory conduction to upper limbs are normal in all patients.Conclusion:The main finding is that electrophysiological evidence of central sensory involvement is present in a very high percentage of patients with HM, and that the threshold for electrophysiological abnormalities is below that for clinical manifestations. Therefore, central sensory and motor conduction studies are sensitive methods for detecting, localizing and monitoring spinal cord damage in HM.





Advanced paternal age (APA) contributes to the risk of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) in children. In this study, we used a mouse model to investigate the effects of APA on behavioral features related to autistic syndromes (that is, social deficits, communication impairments and stereotypic/repetitive behaviors). We also examined whether such effects are transmitted across generations. To do this, males aged 15 months (APA) and 4 months (control) were bred with 4-month-old females, and the resulting offspring (F1) and their progeny (F2; conceived by 4-month-old parents) were tested for the presence and severity of ASD-like behaviors. Our results indicate that APA resulted in offspring that displayed distinctive symptoms of ASD. We found that both F1 conceived from old fathers and F2 derived from old grandfathers displayed increased ultrasound vocalization (USV) activity, decreased sociability, increased grooming activity and increased anxiety-like responses. Moreover, such abnormalities were partially transmitted to the second generation of mice, having APA grandfathers. In conclusion, our study suggests that the risk of ASD could develop over generations, consistent with heritable mutations and/or epigenetic alterations associated with APA.







Endothelial cells (ECs) exhibit dramatic plasticity of form at the single- and collective-cell level during new vessel growth, adult vascular homeostasis, and pathology. Understanding how, when, and why individual ECs coordinate decisions to change shape, in relation to the myriad of dynamic environmental signals, is key to understanding normal and pathological blood vessel behavior. However, this is a complex spatial and temporal problem. In this review we show that the multidisciplinary field of Adaptive Systems offers a refreshing perspective, common biological language, and straightforward toolkit that cell biologists can use to untangle the complexity of dynamic, morphogenetic systems.
The emergence of limb-driven locomotor behaviors was a key event in the evolution of vertebrates and fostered the transition from aquatic to terrestrial life. We show that the generation of limb-projecting lateral motor column (LMC) neurons in mice relies on a transcriptional autoregulatory module initiated via transient activity of multiple genes within the HoxA and HoxC clusters. Repression of this module at thoracic levels restricts expression of LMC determinants, thus dictating LMC position relative to the limbs. This suppression is mediated by a key regulatory domain that is specifically found in the Hoxc9 proteins of appendage-bearing vertebrates. The profile of Hoxc9 expression inversely correlates with LMC position in land vertebrates and likely accounts for the absence of LMC neurons in limbless species such as snakes. Thus, modulation of both Hoxc9 protein function and Hoxc9 gene expression likely contributed to evolutionary transitions between undulatory and ambulatory motor circuit connectivity programs.





Developmental axon branching dramatically increases synaptic capacity and neuronal surface area. Netrin-1 promotes branching and synaptogenesis, but the mechanism by which Netrin-1 stimulates plasma membrane expansion is unknown. We demonstrate that SNARE-mediated exocytosis is a prerequisite for axon branching and identify the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM9 as a critical catalytic link between Netrin-1 and exocytic SNARE machinery in murine cortical neurons. TRIM9 ligase activity promotes SNARE-mediated vesicle fusion and axon branching in a Netrin-dependent manner. We identified a direct interaction between TRIM9 and the Netrin-1 receptor DCC as well as a Netrin-1-sensitive interaction between TRIM9 and the SNARE component SNAP25. The interaction with SNAP25 negatively regulates SNARE-mediated exocytosis and axon branching in the absence of Netrin-1. Deletion of TRIM9 elevated exocytosis in vitro and increased axon branching in vitro and in vivo. Our data provide a novel model for the spatial regulation of axon branching by Netrin-1, in which localized plasma membrane expansion occurs via TRIM9-dependent regulation of SNARE-mediated vesicle fusion.









Propagating waves occur in many excitable media and were recently found in neural systems from retina to neocortex. While propagating waves are clearly present under anaesthesia, whether they also appear during awake and conscious states remains unclear. One possibility is that these waves are systematically missed in trial-averaged data, due to variability. Here we present a method for detecting propagating waves in noisy multichannel recordings. Applying this method to single-trial voltage-sensitive dye imaging data, we show that the stimulus-evoked population response in primary visual cortex of the awake monkey propagates as a travelling wave, with consistent dynamics across trials. A network model suggests that this reliability is the hallmark of the horizontal fibre network of superficial cortical layers. Propagating waves with similar properties occur independently in secondary visual cortex, but maintain precise phase relations with the waves in primary visual cortex. These results show that, in response to a visual stimulus, propagating waves are systematically evoked in several visual areas, generating a consistent spatiotemporal frame for further neuronal interactions.




Studying human infants will increase our understanding of the nature, origins and function of neural mirroring mechanisms. Human infants are prolific imitators. Infant imitation indicates observation-execution linkages in the brain prior to language and protracted learning. Investigations of neural aspects of these linkages in human infants have focused on the sensorimotor mu rhythm in the electroencephalogram, which occurs in the alpha frequency range over central electrode sites. Recent results show that the infant mu rhythm is desynchronized during action execution as well as action observation. Current work is elucidating properties of the infant mu rhythm and how it may relate to prelinguistic action processing and social understanding. Here, we consider this neuroscience research in relation to developmental psychological theory, particularly the 'Like-Me' framework, which holds that one of the chief cognitive tasks of the human infant is to map the similarity between self and other. We elucidate the value of integrating neuroscience findings with behavioural studies of infant imitation, and the reciprocal benefit of examining mirroring mechanisms from an ontogenetic perspective.
Mirror neurons are a specific type of visuomotor neuron that discharge both when a monkey executes a motor act and when it observes a similar motor act performed by another individual. In this article, we review first the basic properties of these neurons. We then describe visual features recently investigated which indicate that, besides encoding the goal of motor acts, mirror neurons are modulated by location in space of the observed motor acts, by the perspective from which the others' motor acts are seen, and by the value associated with the object on which others' motor acts are performed. In the last part of this article, we discuss the role of the mirror mechanism in planning actions and in understanding the intention underlying the others' motor acts. We also review some human studies suggesting that motor intention in humans may rely, as in the monkey, on the mirror mechanism.
There is strong evidence that neonates imitate previously unseen behaviours. These behaviours are predominantly used in social interactions, demonstrating neonates' ability and motivation to engage with others. Research on neonatal imitation can provide a wealth of information about the early mirror neuron system (MNS), namely its functional characteristics, its plasticity from birth and its relation to skills later in development. Although numerous studies document the existence of neonatal imitation in the laboratory, little is known about its natural occurrence during parent-infant interactions and its plasticity as a consequence of experience. We review these critical aspects of imitation, which we argue are necessary for understanding the early action-perception system. We address common criticisms and misunderstandings about neonatal imitation and discuss methodological differences among studies. Recent work reveals that individual differences in neonatal imitation positively correlate with later social, cognitive and motor development. We propose that such variation in neonatal imitation could reflect important individual differences of the MNS. Although postnatal experience is not necessary for imitation, we present evidence that neonatal imitation is influenced by experience in the first week of life.
This review focuses on a novel rehabilitation approach known as action observation treatment (AOT). It is now a well-accepted notion in neurophysiology that the observation of actions performed by others activates in the perceiver the same neural structures responsible for the actual execution of those same actions. Areas endowed with this action observation-action execution matching mechanism are defined as the mirror neuron system. AOT exploits this neurophysiological mechanism for the recovery of motor impairment. During one typical session, patients observe a daily action and afterwards execute it in context. So far, this approach has been successfully applied in the rehabilitation of upper limb motor functions in chronic stroke patients, in motor recovery of Parkinson's disease patients, including those presenting with freezing of gait, and in children with cerebral palsy. Interestingly, this approach also improved lower limb motor functions in post-surgical orthopaedic patients. AOT is well grounded in basic neuroscience, thus representing a valid model of translational medicine in the field of neurorehabilitation. Moreover, the results concerning its effectiveness have been collected in randomized controlled studies, thus being an example of evidence-based clinical practice.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition exhibiting impairments in behaviour, social and communication skills. These deficits may arise from aberrant functional connections that impact synchronization and effective neural communication. Neurofeedback training (NFT), based on operant conditioning of the electroencephalogram (EEG), has shown promise in addressing abnormalities in functional and structural connectivity. We tested the efficacy of NFT in reducing symptoms in children with ASD by targeting training to the mirror neuron system (MNS) via modulation of EEG mu rhythms. The human MNS has provided a neurobiological substrate for understanding concepts in social cognition relevant to behavioural and cognitive deficits observed in ASD. Furthermore, mu rhythms resemble MNS phenomenology supporting the argument that they are linked to perception and action. Thirty hours of NFT on ASD and typically developing (TD) children were assessed. Both groups completed an eyes-open/-closed EEG session as well as a mu suppression index assessment before and after training. Parents filled out pre- and post-behavioural questionnaires. The results showed improvements in ASD subjects but not in TDs. This suggests that induction of neuroplastic changes via NFT can normalize dysfunctional mirroring networks in children with autism, but the benefits are different for TD brains.
This article addresses basic aspects of social cognition focusing on the pivotal role played by the lived body in the constitution of our experience of others. It is suggested that before studying intersubjectivity we should better qualify the notion of the self. A minimal notion of the self, the bodily self, defined in terms of its motor potentialities, is proposed. The discovery of mirror mechanisms for action, emotions and sensations led to the proposal of an embodied approach to intersubjectivity-embodied simulation (ES) theory. ES and the related notion of neural reuse provide a new empirically based perspective on intersubjectivity, viewed first and foremost as intercorporeality. ES challenges the notion that folk psychology is the sole account of interpersonal understanding. ES is discussed within a second-person perspective on mindreading.
Humans have an automatic tendency to imitate others. Previous studies on how we control these tendencies have focused on reactive mechanisms, where inhibition of imitation is implemented after seeing an action. This work suggests that reactive control of imitation draws on at least partially specialized mechanisms. Here, we examine preparatory imitation control, where advance information allows control processes to be employed before an action is observed. Drawing on dual route models from the spatial compatibility literature, we compare control processes using biological and non-biological stimuli to determine whether preparatory imitation control recruits specialized neural systems that are similar to those observed in reactive imitation control. Results indicate that preparatory control involves anterior prefrontal, dorsolateral prefrontal, posterior parietal and early visual cortices regardless of whether automatic responses are evoked by biological (imitative) or non-biological stimuli. These results indicate both that preparatory control of imitation uses general mechanisms, and that preparatory control of imitation draws on different neural systems from reactive imitation control. Based on the regions involved, we hypothesize that preparatory control is implemented through top-down attentional biasing of visual processing.
Spike-timing-dependent plasticity is considered the neurophysiological basis of Hebbian learning and has been shown to be sensitive to both contingency and contiguity between pre- and postsynaptic activity. Here, we will examine how applying this Hebbian learning rule to a system of interconnected neurons in the presence of direct or indirect re-afference (e.g. seeing/hearing one's own actions) predicts the emergence of mirror neurons with predictive properties. In this framework, we analyse how mirror neurons become a dynamic system that performs active inferences about the actions of others and allows joint actions despite sensorimotor delays. We explore how this system performs a projection of the self onto others, with egocentric biases to contribute to mind-reading. Finally, we argue that Hebbian learning predicts mirror-like neurons for sensations and emotions and review evidence for the presence of such vicarious activations outside the motor system.
Here, we report the properties of neurons with mirror-like characteristics that were identified as pyramidal tract neurons (PTNs) and recorded in the ventral premotor cortex (area F5) and primary motor cortex (M1) of three macaque monkeys. We analysed the neurons' discharge while the monkeys performed active grasp of either food or an object, and also while they observed an experimenter carrying out a similar range of grasps. A considerable proportion of tested PTNs showed clear mirror-like properties (52% F5 and 58% M1). Some PTNs exhibited 'classical' mirror neuron properties, increasing activity for both execution and observation, while others decreased their discharge during observation ('suppression mirror-neurons'). These experiments not only demonstrate the existence of PTNs as mirror neurons in M1, but also reveal some interesting differences between M1 and F5 mirror PTNs. Although observation-related changes in the discharge of PTNs must reach the spinal cord and will include some direct projections to motoneurons supplying grasping muscles, there was no EMG activity in these muscles during action observation. We suggest that the mirror neuron system is involved in the withholding of unwanted movement during action observation. Mirror neurons are differentially recruited in the behaviour that switches rapidly between making your own movements and observing those of others.




































Besides classical scorpion toxin-potassium channel binding modes, novel modes remain unknown. Here, we report a novel binding mode of native toxin BmKTX towards Kv1.3 channel. The combined experimental and computational data indicated that BmKTX-D33H analog used the classical anti-parallel -sheet domain as the channel-interacting interface together with the conserved channel pore-blocking Lys(26). However, the wild-type BmKTX was found to use Arg(23) rather than Lys(26) as the new pore-blocking residue, and mainly adopt the turn motif between the -helix and antiparallel -sheet domains to recognize Kv1.3 channel. Together, these findings not only reveal that scorpion toxin-potassium channel interaction modes are more diverse than thought, but also highlight the functional role of toxin acidic residues in mediating diverse toxin-potassium channel binding modes.

















Missense mutation R192Q in the CACNA1A gene causes familial hemiplegic migraine type-1 (FHM1), a monogenic subtype of migraine with aura. Using knock-in (KI) gene targeting we introduced this mutation into the mouse gene and generated a transgenic mouse model to investigate basic mechanisms of migraine pathophysiology. While FHM1 R192Q KI trigeminal ganglia were previously shown to exhibit constitutive up-regulation of ATP-gated P2X3 receptors, little is known about the firing properties of trigeminal sensory neurons, which convey nociceptive inputs to higher brain centers. We patch-clamped trigeminal sensory neurons to search for differences in firing properties between wildtype (WT) and KI cells in culture. Although various subclasses of trigeminal neurons were observed with respect to their firing patterns evoked by intracellular current injection, their distribution among WT and KI cells was similar with only small differences in rheobase or input resistance values. However, when neurons were excited by either ,-methyl-ATP to stimulate P2X3 receptors or capsaicin to activate transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV1) receptors, the firing threshold in KI neurons was significantly lowered and followed by a larger number of spikes. Activation by ,-methyl-ATP was associated with a transient cluster of action potentials, while capsaicin elicited more persistent firing. Using ,-methyl-ATP or capsaicin, two functional classes of WT or KI neurons were distinguished according to the first spike latency, which suggests that a subgroup of neurons may be indirectly activated, probably via crosstalk between neurons and satellite glial cells. Thus, our results are consistent with reported facilitated trigeminal pain behavior of FHM1 R192Q KI mice.
Prenatal exposure to ethanol has been shown to increase the risk of anxiety in offspring. Here, we tested the effect of prenatal ethanol exposure on adult male mandarin voles (Microtus mandarinus). We examined anxiety-like behavior in the open field and elevated plus-maze tests in males exposed to ethanol prenatally. One control group was not exposed to ethanol or saline, while another control group was exposed to saline. At the age of 90days, males were tested and levels of serum testosterone, androgen receptor immunoreactive neurons (AR-IRs) and arginine vasopressin immunoreactive neurons (AVP-IRs) were measured. Animals exposed to ethanol spent less time in the center of the chamber, covered less distance and conducted fewer crossings in the open-field test. These animals also spent less time and conducted fewer crossings in the open arms. However, they spent more time and made more entries in the closed arms, and traveled less total distance during the elevated plus-maze test, compared to the control voles. Serum T was lower in the ethanol group, and the AR-IR number in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), medial preoptic area (mPOA) and medial amygdaloid nucleus (MeA) was significantly lower. The number of AVP-IRs in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON) of the ethanol group was higher than that of the control groups. Our findings suggest that prenatal ethanol exposure may lead to reduced serum T levels, decreased AR and increased AVP in the CNS and result in the development of anxiety-like behaviors.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is typically considered our autonomous clock synchronizing behavior with physiological parameters such as blood pressure (BP), just transmitting time independent of physiology. Yet several studies show that the SCN is involved in the etiology of hypertension. Here, we demonstrate that the SCN is incorporated in a neuronal feedback circuit arising from the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), modulating cardiovascular reactivity. Tracer injections into the SCN of male Wistar rats revealed retrogradely filled neurons in the caudal NTS, where BP information is integrated. These NTS projections to the SCN were shown to be glutamatergic and to terminate in the ventrolateral part of the SCN where light information also enters. BP elevations not only induced increased neuronal activity as measured by c-Fos in the NTS but also in the SCN. Lesioning the caudal NTS prevented this activation. The increase of SCN neuronal activity by hypertensive stimuli suggested involvement of the SCN in counteracting BP elevations. Examining this possibility we observed that elevation of BP, induced by 1-agonist infusion, was more than twice the magnitude in SCN-lesioned animals as compared to in controls, indicating indeed an active involvement of the SCN in short-term BP regulation. We propose that the SCN receives BP information directly from the NTS enabling it to react to hemodynamic perturbations, suggesting the SCN to be part of a homeostatic circuit adapting BP response. We discuss how these findings could explain why lifestyle conditions violating signals of the biological clock may, in the long-term, result in cardiovascular disease.
In the adult mammalian brain niches for neural stem cells are maintained, which enable a steady-state neurogenesis. This process is tightly regulated by multiple niche factors, including Notch and NF-B signaling. The NF-B-activating-protein (NKAP) has previously been shown to act as Notch co-repressor component by binding CIR and recruiting HDAC3 in T-cell development and furthermore to regulate NF-B-dependent transcription. Here, we provide first evidence for the expression of NKAP in neurogenic cells of the adult mammalian brain. NKAP is highly expressed in Mash1(+) transit amplifying cells and PSA-NCAM(+) migrating neuroblasts throughout the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the rostral migratory stream (RMS), as well as in the hippocampus. We further show that NKAP expression levels are downregulated during the course of the RMS. Eventually, most differentiated cells in the olfactory bulb (OB) and the corpus callosum only display low levels of NKAP expression. Finally, large subsets of mature neurons in the OB, the hippocampus and the thalamus express NKAP at high levels, suggesting an additional role of NKAP outside of SVZ progenitor cells.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that causes cognitive impairment. Major pathophysiological AD characteristics include numerous senile plaque, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuronal loss in the specific regions of patients' brains. In this study, we aimed to understand disease stage-dependent regulation of histone modification for the expression of specific markers in plasma and the hippocampus of in vivo AD model. Since the control of histone acetylation/deacetylation has been studied as one of major epigenetic regulatory mechanisms for specific gene expression, we detected the effects of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor on marker expression and neuroprotection in in vivo AD model mice. We determined the effects of valproic acid (VPA, HDAC inhibitor), on the levels of cytokines, secreted form of APP (sAPP), nerve growth factor (NGF), and cognitive function in Tg6799 AD mice in three different disease stages (1month: pre-symptomatic; 5months: early symptomatic; and 10months: late-symptomatic stages). VPA decreased the mRNA levels of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-B) and IL-1 in the plasma of Tg6799 mice compared to vehicle control at 10months of age. VPA increased the protein levels of NGF in the hippocampus of Tg6799 mice at 5 and 10months of age. In addition, VPA decreased escape latencies of Tg6799 mice at 5 and 10months of age in Morris water maze assessment. Taken together, HDAC inhibition is a promising therapeutic target for AD and it needs to be considered in an age-dependent and/or stage-dependent manner.
Widely correlated spontaneous activity in the developing nervous system is transiently expressed and is considered to play a fundamental role in neural circuit formation. The depolarization wave, which spreads over a long distance along the neuraxis, maximally extending to the lumbosacral cord and forebrain, is an example of this spontaneous activity. Although the depolarization wave is typically initiated in the spinal cord in intact preparations, spontaneous discharges have also been detected in the isolated brainstem. Although this suggests that the brainstem has the ability to generate spontaneous activity, but is paced by a caudal rhythm generator of higher excitability, a number of questions remains. Does brainstem activity simply appear as a passive consequence, or does any active change occur in the brainstem network to compensate for this activity? If the latter is the case, does this compensation occur equally at different developmental stages? Where is the new rhythm generator in the isolated brainstem? To answer these questions, we optically analyzed spatio-temporal patterns of activity detected from the chick brainstem before and after transection at the obex. The results revealed that the depolarization wave was homeostatically maintained, which was characterized by an increase in excitability and/or the number of neurons recruited to the wave. The wave was more easily maintained in younger embryos. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the ability of brainstem neurons to perform such an active compensation was not lost even at the stage when the depolarization wave was no longer observed in the intact brainstem.
The pontine micturition center or Barrington's nucleus (BN) - besides regulating micturition - co-regulates the activity of other pelvic viscera such as the colon and genitals. At present, this issue is gaining particular importance due to: (i) recent findings of -synuclein in BN, (ii) known urinary dysfunction in parkinsonian patients (part of the so-called non-motor symptoms), other patients with dementia and as in very old individuals; and (iii) its proximity to the pedunculopontine nucleus, a surgical target in deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease (PD). The structural and functional organization of the micturition reflex comprises a coordinating action of somatic motor activity with both divisions of the autonomic nervous system, modulated by trunk encephalic and cortical centers that involve the BN as locus coeruleus and periaqueductal gray matter, among other trunk encephalic structures. The involvement of dopaminergic activity (physiologic inhibition of the micturition reflex mediated by dopaminergic D1 activity) that diminishes in Parkinsonism and leads to overactivity of the micturition reflex is also well known. In this review, the integrating role of the BN in the context of vesical and gastrointestinal behavior is revisited, and the principal morpho-functional findings that associate dysfunction with the urinary disorders that appear during the pre-motor stages of PD are summarized.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a common and serious trauma which lacks efficient treatment. Inhibition of cell death in the trauma area is important for spinal cord protection during this process. In this study, necroptosis inhibitor necrostatin-1 (Nec-1) was used to treat SCI rats, to investigate the role of Nec-1 in the recovery of SCI. Nec-1 was found to reduce lesions, cytokines and reactive oxygen species (ROS), improve pathological conditions and blood supply in the spinal cord trauma area. Further study indicated that Nec-1 could inhibit necroptosis by inhibiting RIP1/3-MLKL recruitment and inhibit apoptosis by inhibiting Caspase 3 and Bax while activating Bcl-2. Ethological performance of SCI rats confirmed improvement and protection of physiological function by Nec-1. Nec-1 as a potential treatment for SCI warrants further study. To our knowledge, this is the first study on the role of Nec-1 in the treatment of traumatic SCI. Our research also found inhibition effects of Nec-1 on apoptosis, not only necroptosis - as reported by most publications.
Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve attenuates tumor necrosis factor (TNF) synthesis by macrophages and reduces the systemic inflammatory response. Current evidence suggests that the 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor present in the celiac/superior mesenteric ganglia is a key component in vagus nerve signaling to the spleen; however, there is currently no direct anatomical evidence that the 7 receptor is present in the murine celiac/superior mesenteric ganglia. Our study addresses this deficiency by providing anatomical evidence that the 7 receptor is expressed within the celiac/superior mesenteric ganglia and splenic nerve fibers using immunohistochemistry and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). 7 receptor mRNA is highly expressed in the celiac/superior mesenteric ganglia and at low levels in the spleen compared to the brain. Double-labeling for 7 and tyrosine hydroxylase shows that 7 receptor protein is present on noradrenergic neurons within the ganglia and prejunctionally on noradrenergic nerve fibers within the spleen. The 7 receptor in the ganglia provides a possible location for the action of 7-selective agonists, while prejunctional 7 receptor expressed on splenic nerves may induce an increase in norepinephrine release in a positive feedback system enhanced by lymphocyte-derived acetylcholine.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) usually leads to severe sensory and motor deficits below the spinal lesion. Previous animal models have shown significant atrophic changes in the neural sensorimotor system following SCI. However, specific anatomical changes in the human brain following SCI remain poorly understood. The purpose of the present study was to investigate structural changes during the early stage of SCI, and to investigate further the association between the structural changes and patients' sensorimotor functions. The study participants included 20 patients with SCI and 30 matched healthy controls. The mean period post-SCI was 8.92.7weeks (range 4-12weeks). Voxel-based morphometry was used to investigate the regions with gray and white matter volume changes. Compared to healthy controls, patients with SCI showed significant gray matter atrophy in the primary motor cortex (M1), primary somatosensory cortex (S1), supplementary motor area (SMA), and thalamus, as well as white matter atrophy in the corticospinal tracts at the level of the bilateral cerebral peduncles. In addition, gray matter volume in the primary motor cortex was positively correlated with the total American Spinal Injury Association motor score in patients with SCI. In conclusion, our findings suggest that SCI causes significant anatomical changes in the human sensorimotor system, and that these anatomical changes may occur in the early phase of SCI. Future treatments that aim to restore sensorimotor functions following SCI need to attend to these anatomical changes in the brain.
Fear conditioning has been proposed as an important factor involved in the etiology of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). We examined fear processing in PTSD patients with mild symptoms and in individuals who did not develop symptoms (both groups consisting of victims of a bank robbery), through the study of fear-conditioned response. Conditioned responses were quantified by the skin conductance response (SCR) and the facial thermal response, the latter being measured by high-resolution functional thermal infrared (fIR) imaging. We found: (a) a change of the physiological parameters with respect to the baseline condition in both control subjects and PTSD patients during the conditioning phase; (b) the permanence of the conditioning effect in the maintenance phase in both control and PTSD patients; (c) patients and controls did differ for the variation across the phases of the physiological parameters rather than for their absolute values, showing that PTSD patients had a prolonged excitation and higher tonic component of autonomic activity. These results, although preliminary, indicate that the analysis of SCR and facial thermal response during the conditioning paradigm is a promising psychometric method of investigation, even in the case of low level of PTSD symptom severity. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first attempt to discriminate between control subjects and PTSD patients with mild symptoms through infrared thermal imaging. It may suggest feasible approaches for diagnostic screening in the early phases of the disorder and in the assessment of preventive measures and therapies.
Correlated electrophysiological and behavioral experiments in the snail Helix lucorum were conducted to investigate the contribution of nitric oxide (NO) to synaptic plasticity during withdrawal reflex and aversive context memory development. Time, stimulation frequency and number of tetani/electrical shocks were determined in vitro and in vivo. In isolated brain preparations, nerve tetanization accompanied by bath application of serotonin induced long-term facilitation (LTF) of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) in withdrawal interneurons. Bathing with either the NO-synthase inhibitor N-omega-nitro-L-arginin (L-NNA) or the NO-scavenger 2-phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-imidazoline-1-oxyl 3-oxide (PTIO) before the tetanization prevented tetanus-induced long-term increase of EPSP. Withdrawal interneurons are key elements in the network underlying aversive behavior, with LTF considered the basis for aversive learning. We hypothesized that L-NNA injections in free-behaving snails could influence aversive learning. Snails were trained for 1 or 5days to remember the context in which they were shocked. In one-day training experiments, the snails received 5 electrical shocks in one context. Different groups of snails were sham-injected or L-NNA-injected before or after training. After training, the sham-injected groups demonstrated a significant increase in behavioral responses compared to the L-NNA-injected groups. On the following day, only sham-injected snails demonstrated altered behavioral responses, but no associative context differences were observed. These results correlated with the electrophysiological results. In another series of experiments, the snails received electrical shocks for 5days. Testing on the second day after training demonstrated that the sham-injected group maintained selective aversive context memory, whereas the L-NNA-injected snails were not different between the two contexts. Together these results demonstrated that inhibition of NO synthesis prevents memory formation and influences synaptic plasticity in the withdrawal interneurons that underlie the behavioral changes. This suggests that NO influences the behavior via regulation of synaptic plasticity.
Electric stimulation using retinal implants allows blind people to re-experience a rudimentary kind of vision. The elicited percepts or so called 'phosphenes' are highly inconstant and therefore do not restore vision properly. The better knowledge of how retinal neurons, especially retinal ganglion cells, respond to electric stimulation will help to develop more sophisticated stimulation strategies. Special anatomic and physiologic properties like a band of highly dense sodium channels in retinal ganglion cells may help to achieve a focal activation of target cells and as a result better restoration of vision. A portion of retinal ganglion cell axons, about 40m from the soma and between 25 and 40m in length, shows a specific biophysical property. Electrode locations close to a band of highly dense sodium channels which were identified immunochemically show lowest thresholds during electric stimulation. The (modeled) thresholds for this kind of structure result in lowest thresholds as well. The influence on the location where action potentials are generated within the axon is far reaching. When a stimulating electrode is positioned far outside the actual band region the site of spike initiation still remains within the sodium channel band. These findings suggest to further examine the key mechanisms of activation for retinal ganglion cells because focal activation without influencing passing axons of neurons located far away can improve the outcome of electric stimulation and therefore the development of retinal implants.
Synaptosomal-associated protein of 25kDa (SNAP25), vesicle-associated membrane protein 1 (VAMP1) and 2 (VAMP2) are components of soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion attachment protein receptors (SNARE) complex which is involved in synaptic vesicle exocytosis, a fundamental step in neurotransmitter release. SNARE expression in cerebellum correlates with specific neurotransmitter pathways underlying synaptic diversification and defined synaptic properties. In this study we firstly characterized the distribution of SNAP25, VAMP1 and VAMP2 in the nerve terminals of a defined cerebellar region, the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN), of adult and newborn rats. Then, given the pivotal role of estradiol (E2) in the synaptic organization of the cerebellar circuitry in early postnatal life, we examined whether administration of E2 in the newborn DCN affected synaptic density and changed the distribution of the presynaptic proteins SNAP25, VAMP1 and VAMP2, together with post synaptic density protein 95 (PSD95). Results showed that: (1) distribution of SNAP25, VAMP1 and VAMP2 in adult DCN differs significantly from that found in newborn DCN; (2) administration of E2 in the newborn DCN affected synaptic density and also changed the distribution of the pre- and postsynaptic proteins. The differential distribution of SNAP25, VAMP1 and VAMP2 in nerve terminals of adult and newborn rats may correlate with specific stages of neuronal phenotypic differentiation. The effects of E2 on SNAP25, VAMP1, VAMP2, PDS95 and synaptic density suggest that pre- and postsynaptic proteins are under estrogenic control during development and that synaptic maturation can also be related with the activity of this steroid.
Spontaneous cord dorsum potentials (spontaneous CDPs) are produced by the activation of dorsal horn neurons distributed along the L4 to S1 spinal cord segments, in Rexed's laminae III-VI, in the same region in which there are interneurons rhythmically bursting during fictive scratching in cats. An interesting observation is that spontaneous CDPs are not rhythmically superimposed on the sinusoidal CDPs generated during fictive scratching episodes, thus suggesting that the interneurons producing both types of CDPs belong to different spinal circuits. In order to provide experimental data to support this hypothesis, we recorded unitary activity of neurons in the L6 spinal cord segment. We found that the neurons firing rhythmically during the sinusoidal CDPs associated with the extensor, flexor or intermediate phases of scratching were not synchronized with the spontaneous CDPs. Moreover, we found that the neurons firing during the spontaneous CDPs were not synchronized with the sinusoidal CDPs. These results suggest that the neurons involved in the occurrence of spontaneous CDPs are not part of the spinal cord central pattern generators (CPGs). This study will be relevant for understanding the relationships between the spinal cord neuronal populations firing spontaneously and the CPGs, in the intact and injured spinal cord.
We investigated the effect of taurine on inflammatory cytokine expression, on astrocyte activity and cerebral edema and functional outcomes, following traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. 72 rats were randomly divided into sham, TBI and Taurine groups. Rats subjected to moderate lateral fluid percussion injury were injected intravenously with taurine (200mg/kg) or saline immediately after injury or daily for 7days. Functional outcome was evaluated using Modified Neurological Severity Score (mNSS). Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) of the brain was measured using immunofluorescence. Concentration of 23 cytokines and chemokines in the injured cortex at 1 and 7days after TBI was assessed by Luminex xMAP technology. The results showed that taurine significantly improved functional recovery except 1day, reduced accumulation of GFAP and water content in the penumbral region at 7days after TBI. Compared with the TBI group, taurine significantly suppressed growth-related oncogene (GRO/KC) and interleukin (IL)-1 levels while elevating the levels of regulated on activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted (RANTES) at 1day. And taurine markedly decreased the level of 17 cytokine: eotaxin, Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), interferon-gamma (IFN-), IL-1, IL-1, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12p70, IL-13, IL-17, leptin, monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and only increased the level of MIP-1 in a week. The results suggest that taurine effectively mitigates the severity of brain damage in TBI by attenuating the increase of astrocyte activity and edema as well as pro-inflammatory cytokines.
We have further developed a behavioral model of itch and pain in the lower hindlimb (calf) originally reported by LaMotte et al. (2011) that allows comparisons with responses of lumbar dorsal horn neurons to pruritic and noxious stimuli. Intradermal (id) microinjection of the pruritogens histamine, SLIGRL-NH2 (agonist of PAR-2 and MrgprC11) and chloroquine (agonist of MrgprA3) into the calf of the lower limb elicited significant biting and a small amount of licking directed to the injection site, over a 30-min time course. Following id injection of histamine, low-threshold mechanical stimuli reliably elicited discrete episodes of biting (alloknesis) over a longer time course; significantly less alloknesis was observed following id injection of SLIGRL-NH2. Capsaicin injections elicited licking but little biting. Following id injection of capsaicin, low-threshold mechanical stimuli elicited discrete hindlimb flinches (allodynia) over a prolonged (&gt;2h) time course. In single-unit recordings from superficial lumbar dorsal horn neurons, low-threshold mechanically evoked responses were significantly enhanced, accompanied by receptive field expansion, following id injection of histamine in histamine-responsive neurons. This was not observed in histamine-insensitive neurons, or following id injection of saline or SLIGRL-NH2, regardless of whether the latter activated the neuron or not. These results suggest that itch-responsive neurons are selectively sensitized by histamine but not SLIGRL-NH2 to account for alloknesis. The presently described &quot;calf&quot; model appears to distinguish between itch- and pain-related behavioral responses, and provides a basis to investigate lumbar spinal neural mechanisms underlying itch, alloknesis, pain and allodynia.
Homer is a postsynaptic density (PSD) scaffold protein that is involved in synaptic plasticity, calcium signaling and neurological disorders. Here, we use pre-embedding immunogold electron microscopy to illustrate the differential localization of three Homer gene products (Homer 1, 2, and 3) in different regions of the mouse brain. In cross-sectioned PSDs, Homer occupies a layer 30-100nm from the postsynaptic membrane lying just beyond the dense material that defines the PSD core (30-nm-thick). Homer is evenly distributed within the PSD area along the lateral axis, but not at the peri-PSD locations within 60nm from the edge of the PSD, where type I-metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1 and 5) are concentrated. This distribution of Homer matches that of Shank, another major PSD scaffold protein, but differs from those of other two major binding partners of Homer, type I mGluR and IP3 receptors. Many PSD proteins rapidly redistribute upon acute (2min) stimulation. To determine whether Homer distribution is affected by acute stimulation, we examined its distribution in dissociated hippocampal cultures under different conditions. Both the pattern and density of label for Homer 1, the isoform that is ubiquitous in hippocampus, remained unchanged under high K(+) depolarization (90mM for 2-5min), N-methyl-d-asparic acid (NMDA) treatment (50M for 2min), and calcium-free conditions (EGTA at 1mM for 2min). In contrast, Shank and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) accumulate at the PSD upon NMDA treatment, and CaMKII is excluded from the PSD complex under low calcium conditions.
CHF5074 is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory derivative that has been shown to inhibit -amyloid plaque deposition and to reverse memory deficit in vivo in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present in vivo study we used pre-plaque Tg2576 mice showing cognitive impairments to investigate the effects of a sub-acute treatment with CHF5074 on prefrontal cortex dialysate glutamate levels. Furthermore, the effects of CHF5074 have been compared with those induced, under the same experimental conditions, by LY450139, a potent -secretase inhibitor, that has been shown to inhibit brain -amyloid production. No differences in prefrontal cortex dialysate glutamate levels were observed between control Tg2576 and wild-type animals. A sub-acute (8days) treatment with CHF5074 (30mg/kg, s.c.), LY450139 (3mg/kg, s.c.) or their respective vehicles did not modify prefrontal cortex dialysate glutamate levels. After these treatments, the injection of CHF5074 reduced, while LY450139 increased, prefrontal cortex dialysate glutamate levels in Tg2576 mice, but not in wild-type animals. These results suggest that at the dose tested CHF5074 and LY450139 differently affect cortical glutamate transmission in pre-plaque Tg2576 mice. This different neurochemical profile could be involved in the different ability of the two drugs in improving early cognitive performance in this animal model of AD.
Restrained eaters (REs) characterized by less efficient response inhibition are at risk for future onset of binge eating and bulimic pathology. Previous imaging studies investigating REs have been based on task-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and little is known about resting-state neural activity underlying restrained eating. To illuminate this issue, we investigated resting-state fMRI differences between REs (n=22) and unrestrained eaters (UREs) (n=30) using regional homogeneity (ReHo) analysis, which measures the temporal synchronization of spontaneous fluctuations. Samples were equated on body mass index (BMI) and caloric deprivation levels (i.e., 142.1h since last evening meal) before undergoing fMRI. Correlation analyses were performed between the ReHo index of identified regions and response inhibition based on stop-signal reaction time (SSRT) within each sample. Compared with UREs, REs showed more ReHo in brain regions associated with food reward (i.e., orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), dorsal-lateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC)), attention (i.e., lingual gyrus, cuneus, inferior parietal lobule) and somatosensory functioning (i.e., paracentral lobule, anterior insula). In addition, ReHo values for the left dlPFC and left anterior insula, respectively, were negatively and positively correlated with SSRT among REs but not UREs. In concert with previous studies, these results suggest altered local synchronization may help to explain why dieting to maintain or lose weight often fails or increases risk for binge eating among REs.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is one of the main chronic inflammatory diseases of the CNS that cause functional disability in young adults. It has unknown etiology characterized by the infiltration of lymphocytes and macrophages into the brain. The aim of this study was to evaluate the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in lymphocytes and whole blood, as well as butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) and adenosine deaminase (ADA) activities in serum. We also checked the levels of nucleotides, nucleosides, biomarkers of inflammation such as cytokines (interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, interferon (IFN)-, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-) and IL-10) and C-reactive protein (CRP) in serum from 29 patients with the relapsing-remitting form of MS (RRMS) and 29 healthy subjects as the control group. Results showed that AChE in lymphocytes and whole blood as well as BChE, and ADA activities in serum were significantly increased in RRMS patients when compared to the control group (P&lt;0.05). In addition, we observed a decrease in ATP levels and a significant increase in the levels of ADP, AMP, adenosine and inosine in serum from RRMS patients in relation to the healthy subjects (P&lt;0.05). Results also demonstrated an increase in the IFN-, TNF-, IL-1, IL-6 and CRP (P&lt;0.05) and a significant decrease in the IL-10 (P&lt;0.0001) in RRMS patients when compared to control. Our results suggest that alterations in the biomarkers of inflammation and hydrolysis of nucleotides and nucleosides may contribute to the understanding of the neurological dysfunction of RRMS patients.
Anhedonia is one of the core symptoms of depression and has been linked to blunted responses to rewarding stimuli in striatal regions. Stress, a key vulnerability factor for depression, has been shown to induce anhedonic behavior, including reduced reward responsiveness in both animals and humans, but the brain processes associated with these effects remain largely unknown in humans. Emerging evidence suggests that stress has dissociable effects on distinct components of reward processing, as it has been found to potentiate motivation/'wanting' during the anticipatory phase but reduce reward responsiveness/'liking' during the consummatory phase. To examine the impact of stress on reward processing, we used a monetary incentive delay (MID) task and an acute stress manipulation (negative performance feedback) in conjunction with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Fifteen healthy participants performed the MID task under no-stress and stress conditions. We hypothesized that stress would have dissociable effects on the anticipatory and consummatory phases in reward-related brain regions. Specifically, we expected reduced striatal responsiveness during reward consumption (mirroring patterns previously observed in clinical depression) and increased striatal activation during reward anticipation consistent with non-human findings. Supporting our hypotheses, significant Phase (Anticipation/Consumption)Stress (Stress/No-stress) interactions emerged in the putamen, nucleus accumbens, caudate and amygdala. Post hoc tests revealed that stress increased striatal and amygdalar activation during anticipation but decreased striatal activation during consumption. Importantly, stress-induced striatal blunting was similar to the profile observed in clinical depression under baseline (no-stress) conditions in prior studies. Given that stress is a pivotal vulnerability factor for depression, these results offer insight to better understand the etiology of this prevalent disorder.
This study has revealed direct projections from the dorsal peduncular cortex (DP) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPfC) to the trigeminal brainstem sensory nuclear complex and other lower brainstem areas in rats. We first examined the distribution of mPfC neurons projecting directly to the medullary dorsal horn (trigeminal subnucleus caudalis [Vc]) and trigeminal subnucleus oralis (Vo) which are known to receive direct projections from the lateral prefrontal cortex (insular cortex). After injections of the retrograde tracer Fluorogold (FG) into the rostro-dorsomedial part of laminae I/II of Vc (rdm-I/II-Vc), many neurons were labeled bilaterally (with an ipsilateral predominance) in the rostrocaudal middle level of DP (mid-DP) and not in other mPfC areas. After FG injections into the lateral and caudal parts of laminae I/II of Vc, or the Vo, no neurons were labeled in the mPfC. We then examined projections from the mid-DP by using the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextranamine (BDA). After BDA injections into the mid-DP, many axons and terminals were labeled bilaterally (with an ipsilateral predominance) in the rdm-I/II-Vc, periaqueductal gray and solitary tract nucleus, and ipsilaterally in the parabrachial nucleus and trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus. In addition, the connections of the mid-DP with the insular cortex were examined. Many BDA-labeled axons and terminals from the mid-DP were also found ipsilaterally in the caudalmost level of the granular and dysgranular insular cortex (GI/DI). After BDA injections into the caudalmost GI/DI, many axons and terminals were labeled ipsilaterally in the mid-DP. The projections from the mid-DP to the rdm-I/II-Vc and other brainstem nuclei suggest that mid-DP neurons may regulate intraoral and perioral sensory processing (including nociceptive processing) of rdm-I/II-Vc neurons directly or indirectly through the brainstem nuclei. The reciprocal connections between the mid-DP and caudalmost GI/DI suggest that this regulation may involve mid-DP interactions with the caudalmost GI/DI neurons.
Some evidence has shown an increased number of activated microglial cells in patients with schizophrenia. It is hypothesized that activated microglia may contribute to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. We injected saline or Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) into the ventral hippocampus in adult Sprague-Dawley rats via micro-pump; at the same time, the rats were intragastrically administrated with saline or minocycline once a day for 14 consecutive days. Then, behavioral tests were examined and microglia were assessed using immunohistochemistry method. GM-CSF-injected group showed significant behavioral deficits (hyperlocomotion, social interaction deficits, prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits). There was a dramatic increase of the number of activated microglial cells in the hippocampus and other brain regions such as cerebral cortex and thalamus compared with those in saline-injected group in immunohistochemistry. Minocycline was able to ameliorate deficits of social interaction and PPI but not hyperlocomotion. Minocycline was also able to inhibit the microglial activation. In conclusion, intrahippocampal administration of GM-CSF in adult rats may serve as a potential schizophrenia animal model, which may be related with the microglia hypothesis of schizophrenia.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) affects myelin sheaths within the central nervous system, concurring to cause brain atrophy and neurodegeneration as well as gradual functional disconnections. To explore early signs of altered connectivity in MS from a structural and functional perspective, the morphology of corpus callosum (CC) was correlated with a dynamic inter-hemispheric connectivity index. Twenty mildly disabled patients affected by a relapsing-remitting (RR) form of MS (EDSS3.5) and 15 healthy subjects underwent structural MRI to measure CC thickness over 100 sections and electroencephalography to assess a spectral coherence index between primary regions devoted to hand control, at rest and during an isometric handgrip. In patients, an overall CC atrophy was associated with increased lesion load. A less efficacious inter-hemispheric coherence (IHCoh) during movement was associated with CC atrophy in sections interconnecting homologous primary motor areas (anterior mid-body). In healthy controls, less efficacious IHCoh at rest was associated with a thinner CC splenium. Our data suggest that in mildly disabled RR-MS patients a covert impairment may be detected in the correlation between the structural (CC thickness) and functional (IHCoh) measures of homologous networks, whereas these two counterparts do not yet differ individually from controls.
The aim of present study was to elucidate the role of Interleukin-10 (IL-10) in the neuroprotection of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) against traumatic brain injury (TBI) in mice. The TBI in mice was induced by controlled cortical impact (CCI). HBO was given for 1h at 2.0 absolute atmosphere (ATA) in 100% O2. HBO enhanced the serumal and cerebral IL-10 protein levels in both sham-operated and TBI mice. HBO therapy after TBI reduced lesion volume, attenuated cerebral edema, improved neurological status including motor and cognitive function, inhibited apoptosis evidenced by decreased ratio of cleaved caspase-3 (C3) to pro-C3 and Bax expression and increased bcl-2 expression, and attenuated inflammation marked by reduced expression of IL-1, IL-6, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9). In addition, HBO after TBI improved the blood-brain barrier, and upregulated the expression of tight junction proteins including zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) and claudin-5. IL-10 deficiency aggravated TBI-induced damage in the brain and abrogated the beneficial effects of HBO on neuroinflammation, apoptosis, and edema after TBI. IL-10 deficiency itself had no significant effect on brain water content and neurological status. In conclusion, IL-10 played an important role in the neuroprotection of HBO therapy against TBI in mice.
















Though much is known about the cellular and molecular components of the circadian clock, output pathways that couple clock cells to overt behaviors have not been identified. We conducted a screen for circadian-relevant neurons in the Drosophila brain and report here that cells of the pars intercerebralis (PI), a functional homolog of the mammalian hypothalamus, comprise an important component of the circadian output pathway for rest:activity rhythms. GFP reconstitution across synaptic partners (GRASP) analysis demonstrates that PI cells are connected to the clock through a polysynaptic circuit extending from pacemaker cells to PI neurons. Molecular profiling of relevant PI cells identified the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) homolog, DH44, as a circadian output molecule that is specifically expressed by PI neurons and is required for normal rest:activity rhythms. Notably, selective activation or ablation of just six DH44+ PI cells causes arrhythmicity. These findings delineate a circuit through which clock cells can modulate locomotor rhythms.
During social interactions, an individual's behavior is largely governed by the subset of signals emitted by others. Discrimination of &quot;self&quot; from &quot;other&quot; regulates the territorial urine countermarking behavior of mice. To identify the cues for this social discrimination and understand how they are interpreted, we designed an olfactory-dependent countermarking assay. We find major urinary proteins (MUPs) sufficient to elicit countermarking, and unlike other vomeronasal ligands that are detected by specifically tuned sensory neurons, MUPs are detected by a combinatorial strategy. A chemosensory signature of &quot;self&quot; that modulates behavior is developed via experience through exposure to a repertoire of MUPs. In contrast, aggression can be elicited by MUPs in an experience-independent but context-dependent manner. These findings reveal that individually emitted chemical cues can be interpreted based on their combinatorial permutation and relative ratios, and they can transmit both fixed and learned information to promote multiple behaviors.
Neurodegenerative diseases can occur so early as to affect neurodevelopment. From a cohort of more than 2,000 consanguineous families with childhood neurological disease, we identified a founder mutation in four independent pedigrees in cleavage and polyadenylation factor I subunit 1 (CLP1). CLP1 is a multifunctional kinase implicated in tRNA, mRNA, and siRNA maturation. Kinase activity of the CLP1 mutant protein was defective, and the tRNA endonuclease complex (TSEN) was destabilized, resulting in impaired pre-tRNA cleavage. Germline clp1 null zebrafish showed cerebellar neurodegeneration that was rescued by wild-type, but not mutant, human CLP1 expression. Patient-derived induced neurons displayed both depletion of mature tRNAs and accumulation of unspliced pre-tRNAs. Transfection of partially processed tRNA fragments into patient cells exacerbated an oxidative stress-induced reduction in cell survival. Our data link tRNA maturation to neuronal development and neurodegeneration through defective CLP1 function in humans.
Systems-level identification and analysis of cellular circuits in the brain will require the development of whole-brain imaging with single-cell resolution. To this end, we performed comprehensive chemical screening to develop a whole-brain clearing and imaging method, termed CUBIC (clear, unobstructed brain imaging cocktails and computational analysis). CUBIC is a simple and efficient method involving the immersion of brain samples in chemical mixtures containing aminoalcohols, which enables rapid whole-brain imaging with single-photon excitation microscopy. CUBIC is applicable to multicolor imaging of fluorescent proteins or immunostained samples in adult brains and is scalable from a primate brain to subcellular structures. We also developed a whole-brain cell-nuclear counterstaining protocol and a computational image analysis pipeline that, together with CUBIC reagents, enable the visualization and quantification of neural activities induced by environmental stimulation. CUBIC enables time-course expression profiling of whole adult brains with single-cell resolution.
The overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) has been known to contribute to the pathogenesis of noise-induced hearing loss. In this study, we discovered that in BALB/c mice pretreatment with methylene blue (MB) for 4 consecutive days significantly protected against cochlear injury by intense broad-band noise for 3 h. It decreased both compound threshold shift and permanent threshold shift and, further, reduced outer hair cell death in the cochlea. MB also reduced ROS and RNS formation after noise exposure. Furthermore, it protected against rotenone- and antimycin A-induced cell death and also reversed ATP generation in the in vitro UB-OC1 cell system. Likewise, MB effectively attenuated the noise-induced impairment of complex IV activity in the cochlea. In addition, it increased the neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) level, which could affect the synaptic connections between hair cells and spiral ganglion neurons in the noise-exposed cochlea, and also promoted the conservation of both efferent and afferent nerve terminals on the outer and inner hair cells. These findings suggest that the amelioration of impaired mitochondrial electron transport and the potentiation of NT-3 expression by treatment with MB have a significant therapeutic value in preventing ROS-mediated sensorineural hearing loss.
The recent HIV-1 vaccine failures highlight the need to better understand virus-host interactions. One key question is why CD8(+) T cell responses to two HIV-Gag regions are uniquely associated with delayed disease progression only in patients expressing a few rare HLA class I variants when these regions encode epitopes presented by ~30 more common HLA variants. By combining epitope processing and computational analyses of the two HIV subtypes responsible for ~60% of worldwide infections, we identified a hitherto unrecognized adaptation to the antigen-processing machinery through substitutions at subtype-specific motifs. Multiple HLA variants presenting epitopes situated next to a given subtype-specific motif drive selection at this subtype-specific position, and epitope abundances correlate inversely with the HLA frequency distribution in affected populations. This adaptation reflects the sum of intrapatient adaptations, is predictable, facilitates viral subtype diversification, and increases global HIV diversity. Because low epitope abundance is associated with infrequent and weak T cell responses, this most likely results in both population-level immune evasion and inadequate responses in most people vaccinated with natural HIV-1 sequence constructs. Our results suggest that artificial sequence modifications at subtype-specific positions in vitro could refocus and reverse the poor immunogenicity of HIV proteins.
All forms of diabetes mellitus (DM) are characterized by the loss of functional pancreatic  cell mass, leading to insufficient insulin secretion. Thus, identification of novel approaches to protect and restore  cells is essential for the development of DM therapies. Mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress-inducible protein, but its physiological role in mammals has remained obscure. We generated MANF-deficient mice that strikingly develop severe diabetes due to progressive postnatal reduction of  cell mass, caused by decreased proliferation and increased apoptosis. Additionally, we show that lack of MANF in vivo in mouse leads to chronic unfolded protein response (UPR) activation in pancreatic islets. Importantly, MANF protein enhanced  cell proliferation in vitro and overexpression of MANF in the pancreas of diabetic mice enhanced  cell regeneration. We demonstrate that MANF specifically promotes  cell proliferation and survival, thereby constituting a therapeutic candidate for  cell protection and regeneration.








